Operational Amplifier Basics - Op-amp tutorial X Register to download premium content! Tutorials AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input/Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies RC Networks Resistors Sequential Logic Systems Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators eBooks Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us English English Deutsch Polski Login Page Register Subscribe Register to download premium content! X Deutsch Polski Subscribe Register Login Page AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Connectivity Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input and Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies Premium RC Networks Resistors Resources Sequential Logic Systems Tools Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators Premium Content Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us Advertisement Home / Operational Amplifiers / Operational Amplifier Basics Operational Amplifier Basics Operational Amplifiers, or Op-amps as they are more commonly called, are a two input and one output device used as the basic building blocks of analogue circuits The Basics of the Operational Amplifier In this Operational Amplifier basics tutorial , we will see that the operational amplifier is a linear devices which has all the properties required for nearly ideal DC amplification. They are used extensively in signal conditioning, filtering, or to perform mathematical operations such as add, subtract, integration and differentiation in all its forms. An operational amplifier, or op-amp for short, is fundamentally a voltage amplifying device designed to be used with external feedback components such as resistors and capacitors between its output and input terminals to perform various operations. These feedback components determine the resulting function or “operation” of the amplifier and by virtue of the different feedback configurations whether resistive, capacitive or both, the amplifier can perform a variety of different operations, giving rise to its name of “Operational Amplifier”. An Operational Amplifier is basically a three-terminal device which consists of two high impedance inputs. One of the inputs is called the Inverting Input , marked with a negative or “minus” sign, ( – ). The other input is called the Non-inverting Input , marked with a positive or “plus” sign ( + ). A third terminal represents the operational amplifiers output port which can both sink and source either a voltage or a current. In a linear operational amplifier, the output signal is the amplification factor, known as the amplifiers gain ( A ) multiplied by the value of the input signal and depending on the nature of these input and output signals, there can be four different classifications of operational amplifier gain. Operational Amplifier Basics of Classification Voltage – Voltage “in” and Voltage “out” Current – Current “in” and Current “out” Transconductance – Voltage “in” and Current “out” Transresistance – Current “in” and Voltage “out” Since most of the circuits dealing with operational amplifiers are voltage amplifiers, we will limit the tutorials in this section to voltage amplifiers only. That is: Vin produces a Vout. The output voltage signal from an Operational Amplifier is the difference between the signals being applied to its two individual inputs. In other words, an op-amps output signal is the difference between the two input signals as the input stage of an Operational Amplifier is in fact a differential amplifier as shown. Operational Amplifier Basics – The Differential Amplifier The circuit below shows a generalized form of a differential amplifier with two inputs marked V1 and V2. The two identical transistors TR1 and TR2 are both biased at the same operating point with their emitters connected together and returned to the common rail, -Vee by way of resistor Re. Differential Amplifier The circuit operates from a dual supply +Vcc and -Vee which ensures a constant supply. The voltage that appears at the output, Vout of the amplifier is the difference between the two input signals as the two base inputs are in anti-phase with each other. So as the forward bias of transistor, TR1 is increased, the forward bias of transistor TR2 is reduced and vice versa. Then if the two transistors are perfectly matched, the current flowing through the common emitter resistor, Re will remain constant. Like the input signal, the output signal is also balanced and since the collector voltages either swing in opposite directions (anti-phase) or in the same direction (in-phase) the output voltage signal, taken from between the two collectors is, assuming a perfectly balanced circuit the zero difference between the two collector voltages. This is known as the Common Mode of Operation with the common mode gain of the amplifier being the output gain when the input is zero. Operational Amplifiers also have one output (although there are ones with an additional differential output) of low impedance that is referenced to a common ground terminal and it should ignore any common mode signals that is, if an identical signal is applied to both the inverting and non-inverting inputs there should no change to the output. However, in real amplifiers there is always some variation and the ratio of the change to the output voltage with regards to the change in the common mode input voltage is called the Common Mode Rejection Ratio or CMRR for short. Operational Amplifiers on their own have a very high open loop DC gain and by applying some form of Negative Feedback we can produce an operational amplifier circuit that has a very precise gain characteristic that is dependant only on the feedback used. Note that the term “open loop” means that there are no feedback components used around the amplifier so the feedback path or loop is open. An operational amplifier only responds to the difference between the voltages on its two input terminals, known commonly as the “ Differential Input Voltage ” and not to their common potential. Then if the same voltage potential is applied to both terminals the resultant output will be zero. An Operational Amplifiers gain is commonly known as the Open Loop Differential Gain , and is given the symbol (A o ). Equivalent Circuit of an Ideal Operational Amplifier Op-amp Parameter and Idealised Characteristic Open Loop Gain, (Avo) Infinite – The main function of an operational amplifier is to amplify the input signal and the more open loop gain it has the better. Open-loop gain is the gain of the op-amp without positive or negative feedback and for such an amplifier the gain will be infinite but typical real values range from about 20,000 to 200,000. Input impedance, (Z IN ) Infinite – Input impedance is the ratio of input voltage to input current and is assumed to be infinite to prevent any current flowing from the source supply into the amplifiers input circuitry ( I IN = 0 ). Real op-amps have input leakage currents from a few pico-amps to a few milli-amps. Output impedance, (Z OUT ) Zero – The output impedance of the ideal operational amplifier is assumed to be zero acting as a perfect internal voltage source with no internal resistance so that it can supply as much current as necessary to the load. This internal resistance is effectively in series with the load thereby reducing the output voltage available to the load. Real op-amps have output impedances in the 100-20kΩ range. Bandwidth, (BW) Infinite – An ideal operational amplifier has an infinite frequency response and can amplify any frequency signal from DC to the highest AC frequencies so it is therefore assumed to have an infinite bandwidth. With real op-amps, the bandwidth is limited by the Gain-Bandwidth product (GB), which is equal to the frequency where the amplifiers gain becomes unity. Offset Voltage, (V IO ) Zero – The amplifiers output will be zero when the voltage difference between the inverting and the non-inverting inputs is zero, the same or when both inputs are grounded. Real op-amps have some amount of output offset voltage. From these “idealized” characteristics above, we can see that the input resistance is infinite, so no current flows into either input terminal (the “current rule”) and that the differential input offset voltage is zero (the “voltage rule”). It is important to remember these two properties as they will help us understand the workings of the Operational Amplifier with regards to the analysis and design of op-amp circuits. However real operational amplifiers, such as the commonly available uA741 for example, do not have infinite gain or bandwidth but have a typical “Open Loop Gain” which is defined as the amplifiers output amplification without any external feedback signals connected to it. For a typical operational amplifier, this open loop gain can be as high as 100dB at DC (zero Hz). Generally, an op-amps output gain decreases linearly as frequency increases down to “Unity Gain” or 1, at about 1MHz. This effect is shown in the following open loop gain response curve. Operational Amplifier Basics – Open Loop Frequency Response From this frequency response curve we can see that the product of the gain against frequency is constant at any point along the curve. Also that the unity gain (0dB) frequency also determines the gain of the amplifier at any point along the curve. This constant is generally known as the Gain Bandwidth Product or GBP . Therefore: GBP = Gain x Bandwidth = A x BW For example, from the graph above the gain of the amplifier at 100kHz is given as 20dB or 10, then the gain bandwidth product is calculated as: GBP = A x BW = 10 x 100,000Hz = 1,000,000 . Similarly, the operational amplifiers gain at 1kHz = 60dB or 1000, therefore the GBP is given as: GBP = A x BW = 1,000 x 1,000Hz = 1,000,000 . The same! . The Voltage Gain (A V ) of the operational amplifier can be found using the following formula: and in Decibels , (dB) is given as: An Operational Amplifiers Bandwidth The operational amplifiers bandwidth is the frequency range over which the voltage gain of the amplifier is above 70.7% or -3dB (where 0dB is the maximum) of its maximum output value as shown below. Here we have used the 40dB line as an example. The -3dB or 70.7% of Vmax down point from the frequency response curve is given as 37dB . Taking a line across until it intersects with the main GBP curve gives us a frequency point just above the 10kHz line at about 12 to 15kHz. We can now calculate this more accurately as we already know the GBP of the amplifier, in this particular case 1MHz. Operational Amplifier Worked Example No1 Using the formula 20 log (A), we can calculate the bandwidth of the amplifier as: 37 = 20 log (A) therefore, A = anti-log (37 ÷ 20) = 70.8 GBP ÷ A = Bandwidth, therefore, 1,000,000 ÷ 70.8 = 14,124Hz, or 14kHz Then the bandwidth of the amplifier at a gain of 40dB is given as 14kHz as previously predicted from the graph. Operational Amplifier Worked Example No2 If the gain of the operational amplifier was reduced by half to say 20dB in the above frequency response curve, the -3dB point would now be at 17dB. This would then give the operational amplifier an overall gain of 7.08, therefore A = 7.08 . If we use the same formula as above, this new gain would give us a bandwidth of approximately 141.2kHz , ten times more than the frequency given at the 40dB point. It can therefore be seen that by reducing the overall “open loop gain” of an operational amplifier its bandwidth is increased and visa versa. In other words, an operational amplifiers bandwidth is inversely proportional to its gain, ( A 1/∞ BW ). Also, this -3dB corner frequency point is generally known as the “half power point”, as the output power of the amplifier is at half its maximum value as shown: Operational Amplifiers Summary Hopefully by now we understand that on its own, an operational amplifiers is a very high gain DC differential amplifier which requires one or more external feedback networks or loops to control its voltage gain, frequency response and other such electrical characteristics. We can connect external resistors or capacitors to the op-amp in a number of different ways to form basic “building Block” circuits such as, Inverting, Non-Inverting, Voltage Follower, Summing, Differential, Integrator and Differentiator type amplifiers. Op-amp Symbol An “ideal” or perfect operational amplifier is a device with certain special characteristics such as infinite open-loop gain A O , infinite input resistance R IN , zero output resistance R OUT , infinite bandwidth 0 to ∞ and zero offset (the output is exactly zero when the input is zero). There are a very large number of operational amplifier IC’s available to suit every possible application from standard bipolar, precision, high-speed, low-noise, high-voltage, etc, in either standard configuration or with internal Junction-FET transistors. Operational amplifiers are available in IC packages of either single, dual or quad op-amps within one single device. The most commonly available and used of all the operational amplifiers in basic electronic kits and projects is the industry standard μA-741 Learn more about operational amplifier basics and the different types of circuit configurations you can construct using the μA-741. In the next tutorial about Operational Amplifier basics, we will use negative feedback connected around the op-amp to produce a standard closed-loop amplifier circuit called an Inverting Amplifier circuit that produces an output signal which is 180 o “out-of-phase” with the input. Next Inverting Operational Amplifier Read more Tutorials inOperational Amplifiers 1. Operational Amplifier Basics 2. Inverting Operational Amplifier 3. Non-inverting Operational Amplifier 4. The Summing Amplifier 5. The Differential Amplifier 6. The Integrator Amplifier 7. The Differentiator Amplifier 8. Operational Amplifiers Summary 9. Operational Amplifier Building Blocks 10. Op-amp Multivibrator 11. Op-amp Comparator 12. Op-amp Monostable 13. Passive Averager 14. Instrumentation Amplifier 322 Comments Join the conversation Cancel reply Error! Please fill all fields. Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Δ Phindile Mdima I really need help Posted on November 11th 2025 | 10:10 pm Reply Heang Kim Thanks Posted on August 29th 2025 | 2:55 am Reply Paul Operational amplifier seems to be a very difficult component to comprehend. But with this explanation I am now starting to understand its working principle. Posted on August 22nd 2025 | 5:30 pm Reply Alberto Very interesting tutorial. Thank you for sharing it. Posted on July 31st 2025 | 3:12 pm Reply Jacy Thanks, now I am unstoppable. Electronics rock. Posted on July 25th 2025 | 7:43 pm Reply m.jayachandran interested to learn op amp functioning and use Posted on June 14th 2025 | 5:27 pm Reply Dr.Peter Toh I should be grateful to know …how to design an optimal audio amplifier using an op-amp: where to start and how to work within the manufacturers specifications for a specific op-amp ? Sincerely. Dr.Toh Posted on March 23rd 2025 | 4:11 pm Reply sanjay n l to bad Posted on March 15th 2025 | 6:24 am Reply stephen mwikali Good Posted on March 13th 2025 | 10:33 am Reply Reuben paul Interesting. Posted on February 26th 2025 | 7:07 am Reply Japhet You have to add more examples Posted on February 19th 2025 | 8:59 am Reply Mjagadi miniga So equiped educative materials Posted on November 26th 2024 | 6:40 am Reply DaveM2 A very helpful hint I find useful in computing op-amp circuitry is this; the amp’s output voltage will do whatever it needs in order to make the two input voltages equal (via the feedback circuit from the output to the negative input). This allows computing the feedback network or providing the resulting output voltage. Posted on November 14th 2024 | 1:53 pm Reply Lachannagari Vinaykumar Full wave precision rectifier Posted on July 24th 2024 | 7:01 am Reply Thant Zin Moe I greatly appreciate you. Posted on July 16th 2024 | 5:48 am Reply Ugwuokpe festus ikechukwu Okay Posted on July 10th 2024 | 12:51 pm Reply Ssheriff Very interesting and educative Posted on June 30th 2024 | 3:44 pm Reply Johnny Superior Posted on May 14th 2024 | 7:58 pm Reply Zara Hi, why the output impedance of ideal operational amplifire is zero? Posted on May 13th 2024 | 6:01 pm Reply Wayne Storr The output circuit of an operational amplifier is composed of a voltage source, (V S ) and a series resistance, (R S ). The output resistance of an ideal operational amplifier is assumed to be zero, so that it can supply as much current as necessary to the load while the output voltage remains constant, regardless of how the connected load is being driven. In other words, an ideal op-amp can supply any required amount of load current without its output voltage changing. Posted on May 14th 2024 | 3:38 am Reply Kolawole oluwafemi I really enjoyed this , please kindly inform me more I want to know more.thanks. Posted on April 25th 2024 | 4:30 pm Reply View More Read more Tutorials inOperational Amplifiers 1. Operational Amplifier Basics 2. Inverting Operational Amplifier 3. Non-inverting Operational Amplifier 4. The Summing Amplifier 5. The Differential Amplifier 6. The Integrator Amplifier 7. The Differentiator Amplifier 8. Operational Amplifiers Summary 9. Operational Amplifier Building Blocks 10. Op-amp Multivibrator 11. Op-amp Comparator 12. Op-amp Monostable 13. Passive Averager 14. Instrumentation Amplifier Advertisement Advertisement Close The Basics Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use For Advertisers Contact Sales Media Guide Request Aspencore Network EDN EE Times EEWeb Electronic Products Power Electronics News Embedded Planet Analog TechOnline Electronics Know How Global Network EE Times Asia EE Times China EE Times India EE Times Japan EE Times Taiwan EDN Asia EDN China EDN Taiwan EDN Japan ESM China Connect with Us Facebook All contents are Copyright © 2025 by AspenCore, Inc. All rights reserved. Subscribe Today! Get the latest tutorials delivered to your inbox. Sign up for our free eNewsletter. Close Articles on Trending Technologies Home Whiteboard Online Compilers Practice Articles AI Assistant Jobs Tools Corporate Training Courses Certifications Menu Categories Login Switch theme Category Java JSP iOS HTML Android Python C Programming C++ Programming C# PHP CSS Javascript jQuery SAP SAP HANA Data Structure RDBMS MySQL Mathematics 8085 Microprocessor Operating System Digital Electronics Analysis of Algorithms Mobile Development Front End Web Development Selenium MongoDB Computer Network General Topics Library Courses Certifications Login Menu Show search SQL HTML CSS Javascript Python Java C C++ PHP Scala C# Tailwind CSS Node.js MySQL MongoDB PL/SQL Swift Bootstrap R Machine Learning Blockchain Angular React Native Computer Fundamentals Compiler Design Operating System Data Structure and Algorithms Computer Network DBMS Excel Data Structure Networking RDBMS Operating System Java MS Excel iOS HTML CSS Android Python C Programming C++ C# MongoDB MySQL Javascript PHP Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Best Wearable Health Monitors Technology Farzz Updated on 14-Oct-2025 15:42:19 1K+ Views Wearable health monitors are used to track our body's activities and functionalities. In this article, I will discuss the 7 best health monitors such as smartwatches and smart rings, their features, and prices. Wearable Health Monitors Wearable Health monitors are smart devices that can track health information such as rate of heartbeat, sleeping patterns, and physical activity. These devices can be worn on your wrist, finger, or any other part of your body. The sensors attached to these devices will collect data from your body and that will be available on your smartphone or computer for tracking and analysis. ... Read More Add Prefix to Each Key Name in a Python Dictionary Python Server Side Programming Programming Priya Sharma Updated on 22-Sep-2025 16:18:38 2K+ Views In this article, we will understand how to add a prefix to each key name in a Python dictionary. Dictionaries in Python are collections of unordered items stored in the form of key-value pairs inside curly braces like this − Dictionary = {key: value, ….} Our goal is to add a prefix (i.e., a word or character added at the beginning of another word) to each key name of the dictionary in Python. Suppose a key in a dictionary is "name", on adding the prefix "company_" to it, the key becomes "company_name". For example − #Input dictionary: Dictionary = ... Read More Advertisement - 00:52 00:00 Ad will close in: 3 seconds or click to close How to Keep Your Browser Safe with Chrome VPN Computer Network sudhir sharma Updated on 08-Sep-2025 18:23:26 678 Views A single thoughtless click on a browser tab can cause hours of frantic IT calls, network scans, and security resets in numerous workplaces. Sometimes, when you seek a recipe or a good offer online, you end up with pop-ups or phishing attempts that are not good. These things happen all the time in a world where people are connected. The browser is the front entrance to the Internet, whether you're in a busy office or a peaceful living room. And just like any other front door, it can be closed, reinforced, and guarded, or it can be left open for ... Read More Binary Search Tree to Greater Sum Tree in C++ C++ Server Side Programming Programming Ravi Ranjan Updated on 04-Sep-2025 15:02:56 660 Views In this article, we are given a binary search tree. Our task is to transform the given BST to a Greater Sum tree. A Greater Sum Tree with respect to the given BST is a tree where each node's value is replaced by the sum of all values greater than that node's value in the original BST. Below is an example scenarios to convert the given BST to a Greater Sum Tree: Example Scenario Input: BST inorder traversal= {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8} Output: Greater Sum Tree = {36, 35, 33, 30, 26, 21, 15, ... Read More Check if a String Has at Least One Letter and One Number in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:23:14 5K+ Views To check if a string contains at least one letter and one number in Python, you can - Use any() function with str.isalpha() function and str.isdigit() function to go through characters. Use re.search() function with appropriate regular expressions for pattern matching. Both methods are commonly used for validating input strings where letters and digits are required. Using any() Function with String Methods The any() function can be combined with str.isalpha() or str.isdigit() functions to check if at least one character in the string is a letter or a digit. This approach is used for partial checks within ... Read More Verify String Contains Letters, Numbers, Underscores, and Dashes in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:22:52 13K+ Views To verify that a string contains only letters, numbers, underscores, and dashes in Python - Use re.fullmatch() function with a pattern like [A-Za-z0-9_-]+ for regex-based checking. Use set comparison with all() function for simple logic-based validation. Many systems restrict input to certain characters for security or formatting reasons. In this case, the allowed characters are alphabets (A–Z, a–z), digits (0–9), underscores (_), and hyphens (-). Using Regular Expressions The re module in Python allows you to define patterns to validate strings. You can use re.fullmatch() function to check if the entire string matches a specific pattern, such as ... Read More Python Regular Expression to Check Alphanumeric String Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:22:21 6K+ Views In this article, we focus on how to check if a string is alphanumeric using regular expressions in Python. Regular expressions are very useful for pattern matching and validation. To use them, first import the re library, which is included by default in Python. The regular expression ^[a-zA-Z0-9]+$ matches strings that contain only letters (both uppercase and lowercase) and numbers. This expression returns True if the string is alphanumeric; otherwise, it returns False. Using Regular Expressions By applying the re.match() function with the above pattern, you can check if the entire string contains only alphanumeric characters. Example: Checking an Alphanumeric ... Read More Check If a String Contains Certain Characters in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:21:55 10K+ Views To check if a Python string contains only certain characters, you can use - set Comparison Regular Expressions Character Lists These approaches help you to verify whether every character in the string belongs to a defined set of allowed characters or not. Using Set Comparison You can create a set of allowed characters and check if all characters in the string belong to that set or not. If the string is a subset of the allowed set, it means the string contains only valid (accepted) characters. Example In the following example, we define a set of allowed numeric ... Read More Check Unicode String for Numeric Characters in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:21:31 1K+ Views In Python, Unicode strings can contain numeric characters from various languages and scripts. To check if a Unicode string contains only numeric characters, we can use built-in string methods, regular expressions, or character iteration. These methods ensure that characters like Arabic numerals, Chinese digits, or superscripts are also recognized as valid numeric characters. Using isnumeric() Method The isnumeric() method returns True if all characters in the string are numeric, including Unicode numeric characters like ², ١, 一, etc. If any character is non-numeric or the string is empty, it returns False. Example: Unicode Numeric Characters In the following example, ... Read More Getitem and Setitem in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:16:24 4K+ Views In Python, you can customize many operations like accessing or modifying elements of a list or dictionary using special methods. Two important methods that make your objects behave like lists or dictionaries are: __getitem__: called when you access an item using obj[key]. __setitem__: called when you assign a value using obj[key] = value. These are examples of dunder methods (short for "double underscore"). They are special methods in Python with names that begin and end with double underscores. When you use square bracket syntax on your object: obj[key] automatically triggers __getitem__ obj[key] = value automatically triggers __setitem__ ... Read More 1 2 3 4 5 ... 7779 Next Advertisements TOP TUTORIALS Python Tutorial Java Tutorial C++ Tutorial C Programming Tutorial C# Tutorial PHP Tutorial R Tutorial HTML Tutorial CSS Tutorial JavaScript Tutorial SQL Tutorial TRENDING TECHNOLOGIES Cloud Computing Tutorial Amazon Web Services Tutorial Microsoft Azure Tutorial Git Tutorial Ethical Hacking Tutorial Docker Tutorial Kubernetes Tutorial DSA Tutorial Spring Boot Tutorial SDLC Tutorial Unix Tutorial CERTIFICATIONS Business Analytics Certification Java & Spring Boot Advanced Certification Data Science Advanced Certification Cloud Computing And DevOps Advanced Certification In Business Analytics Artificial Intelligence And Machine Learning DevOps Certification Game Development Certification Front-End Developer Certification AWS Certification Training Python Programming Certification COMPILERS & EDITORS Online Java Compiler Online Python Compiler Online Golang Compiler Online C Compiler Online C++ Compiler Online C# Compiler Online PHP Compiler Online MATLAB Compiler Online Bash Terminal Online SQL Compiler Online Html Editor ABOUT US | OUR TEAM | CAREERS | JOBS | CONTACT US | TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | REFUND POLICY | COOKIES POLICY | FAQ'S Tutorials Point is a leading Ed Tech company striving to provide the best learning material on technical and non-technical subjects. © Copyright 2025. All Rights Reserved. 404 Error | Analog Devices This is a 404 Error This is a 404 Error - Ahhh, Technology. We can’t find that page. - We can’t seem to find that page. Please use the navigation to reach what you are looking for - Get Help Ahhh, Technology. We can’t find that page. We can’t seem to find that page. Please use the navigation to reach what you are looking for. Get Help {{modalTitle}} Some Error Hapenned {{modalDescription}} {{dropdownTitle}} {{defaultSelectedText}} {{#each projectNames}} {{name}} {{/each}} {{#if newProjectText}} {{newProjectText}} {{/if}} {{#if toggleButtonDescription}} {{toggleButtonDescription}} {{/if}} {{#if newProjectTitle}} {{newProjectTitle}} {{newProjectNameText}} {{projectNameErrorText}} {{newProjectDescriptionText}} {{/if}} {{cancelButtonText}} {{confirmButtonText}} Who We Are Careers Newsroom What We Do (Signals+) Investor Relations Quality & Reliability Sales and Distribution What's New on Analog.com Contact Us Support EngineerZone Resources Wiki Analog Dialogue ADI Developer Portal Legal and Risk Accessibility Privacy Policy Privacy Settings Cookie Settings Analog Devices Cookie Policy By clicking “Accept All Cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Cookie Settings Accept All Cookies Manage Cookie Settings When you visit our website, we store cookies on your browser to collect information. The information collected might relate to you, your preferences, or your device. It is mostly used to make the site work as you expect it to and to provide a more personalized web experience. However, you can choose not to allow certain types of cookies, which may impact your experience of the site and the services we are able to offer. Click on the different category headings below to learn more and to set your preferences. You cannot disable the Strictly Necessary Cookies as they are deployed to ensure the proper functioning of our website (such as prompting the cookie banner and remembering your settings, to log into your account, or to redirect you when you log out). For more information about the cookies click the following link. Cookie Policy Allow All Manage Consent Preferences Strictly Necessary Cookies Always Active These cookies are necessary for the website to function and cannot be switched off in our systems. They are usually only set in response to actions made by you which amount to a request for services, such as setting your privacy preferences, logging in or filling in forms. You can set your browser to block or alert you about these cookies, but some parts of the site will not then work. These cookies do not store any personally identifiable information. Functional Cookies Functional Cookies These cookies enable the website to provide enhanced functionality and personalisation. They may be set by us or by third party providers whose services we have added to our pages. If you do not allow these cookies then some or all of these services may not function properly. Performance Cookies Performance Cookies These cookies allow us to count visits and traffic sources so we can measure and improve the performance of our site. They help us to know which pages are the most and least popular and see how visitors move around the site. All information these cookies collect is aggregated and therefore anonymous. If you do not allow these cookies we will not know when you have visited our site, and will not be able to monitor its performance. Targeting Cookies Targeting Cookies These cookies may be set through our site by our advertising partners, to create a profile of the device owner’s interests in order to show relevant advertising on other sites. The technology does this by uniquely identifying your device. These cookies collect information to build a profile of your interests and to personalize your experience with targeted ads. If you do not allow these cookies, you will experience less targeted advertising (but will still see ads on other websites). If you have enabled privacy controls on your browser (such as the Do Not Track setting or Global Privacy Control signal), Targeting cookies will be disabled by default. Back Button Cookie List Search Icon Filter Icon Clear checkbox label label Apply Cancel Consent Leg.Interest checkbox label label checkbox label label checkbox label label Confirm My Choices Site Feedback