Frequency Division using Divide-by-2 Toggle Flip-flops X Register to download premium content! Tutorials AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input/Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies RC Networks Resistors Sequential Logic Systems Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators eBooks Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us English English Deutsch Polski Login Page Register Subscribe Register to download premium content! X Deutsch Polski Subscribe Register Login Page AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Connectivity Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input and Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies Premium RC Networks Resistors Resources Sequential Logic Systems Tools Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators Premium Content Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us Advertisement Home / Counters / Frequency Division Frequency Division Frequency Division uses divide-by-2 toggle flip-flops as binary counters to reduce the frequency of the input clock signal In the Sequential Logic tutorials we saw how D-type Flip-Flop´s work and how they can be connected together to form a Data Latch. Another useful feature of the D-type Flip-Flop is as a binary divider, for Frequency Division or as a “divide-by-2” counter. Here the inverted output terminal Q (NOT-Q) is connected directly back to the Data input terminal D giving the device “feedback” as shown below. frequency Division Divide-by-2 Counter It can be seen from the frequency waveforms above, that by “feeding back” the output from Q to the input terminal D , the output pulses at Q have a frequency that are exactly one half ( ƒ ÷ 2 ) that of the input clock frequency. In other words the circuit produces Frequency Division as it now divides the input frequency by a factor of two (an octave). This then produces a type of counter called a “ripple counter” and in ripple counters, the clock pulse triggers the first flip-flop whose output triggers the second flip-flop, which in turn triggers the third flip-flop and so on through the chain producing a rippling effect (hence their name) of the timing signal as it passes through the chain. The Toggle Flip-Flop Another type of digital device that can be used for frequency division is the T-type or Toggle flip-flop. With a slight modification to a standard JK flip-flop, we can construct a new type of flip-flop called a Toggle flip-flop . Toggle flip flops can be made from D-type flip-flops as shown above, or from standard JK flip-flops such as the 74LS73. The result is a device with only two inputs, the “Toggle” input itself and the negative controlling “Clock” input as shown. 74LS73 Toggle Flip Flop A “Toggle flip-flop” gets its name from the fact that the flip-flop has the ability to toggle or switch between its two different states, the “toggle state” and the “memory state”. Since there are only two states, a T-type flip-flop is ideal for use in frequency division and binary counter design. Binary ripple counters can be built using “Toggle” or “T-type flip-flops” by connecting the output of one to the clock input of the next. Toggle flip-flops are ideal for building ripple counters as it toggles from one state to the next, (HIGH to LOW or LOW to HIGH) at every clock cycle so simple frequency divider and ripple counter circuits can easily be constructed using standard T-type flip-flop circuits. If we connect together in series, two T-type flip-flops the initial input frequency will be “divided-by-two” by the first flip-flop ( ƒ ÷ 2 ) and then “divided-by-two” again by the second flip-flop ( ƒ ÷ 2 ) ÷ 2 , giving an output frequency which has effectively been divided four times, then its output frequency becomes one quarter value (25%) of the original clock frequency, ( ƒ ÷ 4 ). Each time we add another toggle or “T-type” flip-flop to the chain, the output clock frequency is halved or divided-by-2 again and so on, giving an output frequency of 2 n where “n” is the number of flip-flops used in the sequence. Then the Toggle or T-type flip-flop is an edge triggered divide-by-2 device based upon the standard JK-type flip flop and which is triggered on the rising edge of the clock signal. The result is that each bit moves right by one flip-flop. All the flip-flops can be asynchronously reset and can be triggered to switch on either the leading or trailing edge of the input clock signal making it ideal for Frequency Division . This type of counter circuit used for frequency division is commonly known as an Asynchronous 3-bit Binary Counter as the output on QA to QC , which is 3 bits wide, is a binary count from 0 to 7 for each clock pulse. In an asynchronous counter, the clock is applied only to the first stage with the output of one flip-flop stage providing the clocking signal for the next flip-flop stage and subsequent stages derive the clock from the previous stage with the clock pulse being halved by each stage. This arrangement is commonly known as Asynchronous as each clocking event occurs independently as all the bits in the counter do not all change at the same time. As the counter counts sequentially in an upwards direction from 0 to 7 . This type of counter is also known as an “up” or “forward” counter ( CTU ) or a “3-bit Asynchronous Up Counter” . The three-bit asynchronous counter shown is typical and uses flip-flops in the toggle mode. Asynchronous “Down” counters ( CTD ) are also available. Truth Table for a 3-bit Asynchronous Up Counter Clock Cycle Output Bit Pattern QC QB QA 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 2 0 1 0 3 0 1 1 4 1 0 0 5 1 0 1 6 1 1 0 7 1 1 1 Therefore we can see that the output from the D-type flip-flop is at half the frequency of the input, in other words it counts in 2’s. By cascading together more D-type or Toggle Flip-Flops, we can produce a divide-by-2, divide-by-4, divide-by-8, etc. circuit which will divide the input clock frequency by 2, 4 or 8 times, in fact any value to the power-of-2 we want making a binary counter circuit. Frequency Division Using Binary Counters Thus we can see that a counter is nothing more than a specialised register or pattern generator that produces a specified output pattern or sequence of binary values (or states) upon the application of an input pulse signal called the “Clock”. The clock is actually used for data transfer in these applications. Typically, counters are logic circuits that can increment or decrement a count by one but when used as asynchronous divide-by-n counters they are able to divide these input pulses producing a clock division signal. Counters are formed by connecting flip-flops together and any number of flip-flops can be connected or “cascaded” together to form a “divide-by-n” binary counter where “n” is the number of counter stages used and which is called the Modulus . The modulus or simply “MOD” of a counter is the number of output states the counter goes through before returning itself back to zero, i.e, one complete cycle. Then a counter with three flip-flops like the circuit above will count from 0 to 7 ie, 2 n -1 . It has eight different output states representing the decimal numbers 0 to 7 and is called a Modulo-8 or MOD-8 counter. A counter with four flip-flops will count from 0 to 15 and is therefore called a Modulo-16 counter and so on. An example of this is given as. 3-bit Binary Counter = 2 3 = 8 (modulo-8 or MOD-8) 4-bit Binary Counter = 2 4 = 16 (modulo-16 or MOD-16) 8-bit Binary Counter = 2 8 = 256 (modulo-256 or MOD-256) and so on.. The Modulo number can be increased by adding more flip-flops to the counter and cascading is a method of achieving higher modulus counters. Then the modulo or MOD number can simply be written as: MOD number = 2 n 4-bit Modulo-16 Counter Multi-bit asynchronous counters connected in this manner are also called “Ripple Counters” or ripple dividers because the change of state at each stage appears to “ripple” itself through the counter from the LSB output to its MSB output connection. Ripple counters are available in standard IC form, from the 74LS393 Dual 4-bit counter to the 74HC4060, which is a 14-bit ripple counter with its own built in clock oscillator and produce excellent frequency division of the fundamental frequency. Frequency Division Summary For frequency division , toggle mode flip-flops are used in a chain as a divide by two counter. One flip-flop will divide the clock, ƒ IN by 2, two flip-flops will divide ƒ IN by 4 (and so on). One benefit of using toggle flip-flops for frequency division is that the output at any point has an exact 50% duty cycle. The final output clock signal will have a frequency value equal to the input clock frequency divided by the MOD number of the counter. Such circuits are known as “divide-by-n” counters. Counters can be formed by connecting individual flip-flops together and are classified according to the way they are clocked. In Asynchronous counters , (ripple counter) the first flip-flop is clocked by the external clock pulse and then each successive flip-flop is clocked by the output of the preceding flip-flop. In Synchronous counters , the clock input is connected to all of the flip-flop so that they are clocked simultaneously. In the next tutorial we will look at Asynchronous counters, and see that the main characteristic of an asynchronous counter is that each flip-flop in the chain derives its own clock from the previous flip-flop and is therefore independent of the input clock. Next Asynchronous Counter Read more Tutorials inCounters 1. Frequency Division 2. Asynchronous Counter 3. Synchronous Counter 4. Bidirectional Counters 5. Simple LED Flasher 6. BCD Counter Circuit 7. MOD Counters 8. 7-segment Display Counter 9. 4017 Johnson Counter 64 Comments Join the conversation Cancel reply Error! Please fill all fields. Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Δ Atafo Need a classic circuit built directly from passive and active Posted on April 02nd 2024 | 8:12 pm Reply juvana john good Posted on February 20th 2024 | 6:12 am Reply Chetan Sharma ulala Posted on November 30th 2022 | 8:50 am Reply Pete123 You are forgetting Division by 12. With 4 Flip Flops, take the last two Flip Flops, tie the Clocks together, Use Positive Output instead of Inverting Output, hooked that to the Data Line of the last Flip Flop and get Divide by 12. Posted on July 21st 2022 | 6:43 pm Reply Walt A fixed binary counter consisting of 4 flip-flops will divide by??? Posted on May 15th 2022 | 7:06 pm Reply Vera chibueze Vf (V) = 0, 0.1,0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8] [I f (mA) = 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 9, 24, 50] plot the graph of I/V characteristic for the device and identify the type of device Posted on September 08th 2021 | 9:11 am Reply Dylan Chewe How can i design a circuit that will convert a 2-MHz input frequency into a 0.4-MHz output frequency. Posted on June 12th 2021 | 3:16 am Reply Pete123 That’s a Divide by 5 Function. Divide by 2, Divide by 2, and than Use the Positive Output instead of the Inverting Output on the third one. Posted on October 01st 2022 | 10:48 pm Reply George Why is it that is not completed Posted on June 09th 2021 | 6:26 pm Reply Vikash sahu Frequency division Posted on February 02nd 2021 | 7:44 am Reply Yscz Uddin A modulo 8 Gray code sequence synchronous counter using JK flip flop is to be designed with one input terminal which receives pulse signals and one output terminal. It should be capable of counting in gray code number system and producing an output pulse for every eight input pulse. Can any one slove this Posted on November 06th 2020 | 9:00 am Reply amir imran hi sir what is mean by frequency divide by 8 devices is it 2^3 or 2^8???????? Posted on June 19th 2020 | 6:31 am Reply Vinita jat i can help u sir for exam ISRo Posted on January 07th 2020 | 10:49 am Reply YORAM NICE WEBSITE . Posted on October 12th 2019 | 9:39 am Reply Sagar s Sagar s I want design circuit and verilog code for counter that counts 16 clk cycle and produces a control signal Posted on September 10th 2019 | 5:59 pm Reply Emmanuel John Paghi It’s great and interesting. Please help me with circuits and truth table of mod 2-12 . Posted on May 05th 2019 | 2:12 am Reply Sumit kumar Wait for all digital techniques topics Posted on December 10th 2018 | 8:03 am Reply Shivankar tiwari Is it possible to make different frequencies of 2 source same by any method?? Posted on October 12th 2018 | 3:50 pm Reply Stephanie I dont understand my homework that they gaved me so can i get help it’s about a frequency table about division Posted on September 13th 2018 | 9:17 pm Reply girish frequency division which 50mhz is reduced to 33mhz by using counter.. Posted on September 09th 2018 | 7:10 am Reply Ravindra Kurandle I am interested Posted on August 26th 2018 | 7:41 am Reply View More Read more Tutorials inCounters 1. Frequency Division 2. Asynchronous Counter 3. Synchronous Counter 4. Bidirectional Counters 5. Simple LED Flasher 6. BCD Counter Circuit 7. MOD Counters 8. 7-segment Display Counter 9. 4017 Johnson Counter Advertisement Advertisement Close The Basics Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use For Advertisers Contact Sales Media Guide Request Aspencore Network EDN EE Times EEWeb Electronic Products Power Electronics News Embedded Planet Analog TechOnline Electronics Know How Global Network EE Times Asia EE Times China EE Times India EE Times Japan EE Times Taiwan EDN Asia EDN China EDN Taiwan EDN Japan ESM China Connect with Us Facebook All contents are Copyright © 2025 by AspenCore, Inc. All rights reserved. Subscribe Today! Get the latest tutorials delivered to your inbox. Sign up for our free eNewsletter. Close Digital Electronics - Counters Home Whiteboard Online Compilers Practice Articles Tools Chapters Categories Library Courses Certifications Login Digital Electronics - Home Digital Electronics Basics Types of Digital Systems Types of Signals Logic Levels And Pulse Waveforms Digital System Components Digital Logic Operations Digital Systems Advantages Number Systems Number Systems Binary Numbers Representation Binary Arithmetic Signed Binary Arithmetic Octal Arithmetic Hexadecimal Arithmetic Complement Arithmetic Base Conversions Base Conversions Binary to Decimal Conversion Decimal to Binary Conversion Binary to Octal Conversion Octal to Binary Conversion Octal to Decimal Conversion Decimal to Octal Conversion Hexadecimal to Binary Conversion Binary to Hexadecimal Conversion Hexadecimal to Decimal Conversion Decimal to Hexadecimal Conversion Octal to Hexadecimal Conversion Hexadecimal to Octal Conversion Binary Codes Binary Codes 8421 BCD Code Excess-3 Code Gray Code ASCII Codes EBCDIC Code Code Conversion Error Detection & Correction Codes Logic Gates Logic Gates AND Gate OR Gate NOT Gate Universal Gates XOR Gate XNOR Gate CMOS Logic Gate OR Gate Using Diode Resistor Logic AND Gate vs OR Gate Two Level Logic Realization Threshold Logic Boolean Algebra Boolean Algebra Laws of Boolean Algebra Boolean Functions DeMorgan's Theorem SOP and POS Form POS to Standard POS Form Minimization Techniques K-Map Minimization Three Variable K-Map Four Variable K-Map Five Variable K-Map Six Variable K-Map Don't Care Condition Quine-McCluskey Method Min Terms and Max Terms Canonical and Standard Form Max Term Representation Simplification using Boolean Algebra Combinational Logic Circuits Digital Combinational Circuits Digital Arithmetic Circuits Multiplexers Multiplexer Design Procedure Mux Universal Gate 2-Variable Function Using 4:1 Mux 3-Variable Function Using 8:1 Mux Demultiplexers Mux vs Demux Parity Bit Generator and Checker Comparators Encoders Keyboard Encoders Priority Encoders Decoders Arithmetic Logic Unit 7-Segment LED Display Code Converters Code Converters Binary to Decimal Converter Decimal to BCD Converter BCD to Decimal Converter Binary to Gray Code Converter Gray Code to Binary Converter BCD to Excess-3 Converter Excess-3 to BCD Converter Adders Half Adders Full Adders Serial Adders Parallel Adders Full Adder using Half Adder Half Adder vs Full Adder Full Adder with NAND Gates Half Adder with NAND Gates Binary Adder-Subtractor Subtractors Half Subtractors Full Subtractors Parallel Subtractors Full Subtractor using 2 Half Subtractors Half Subtractor using NAND Gates Sequential Logic Circuits Digital Sequential Circuits Clock Signal and Triggering Latches Shift Registers Shift Register Applications Binary Registers Bidirectional Shift Register Counters Binary Counters Non-binary Counter Design of Synchronous Counter Synchronous vs Asynchronous Counter Finite State Machines Algorithmic State Machines Flip Flops Flip-Flops Conversion of Flip-Flops D Flip-Flops JK Flip-Flops T Flip-Flops SR Flip-Flops Clocked SR Flip-Flop Unclocked SR Flip-Flop Clocked JK Flip-Flop JK to T Flip-Flop SR to JK Flip-Flop Triggering Methods:Flip-Flop Edge-Triggered Flip-Flop Master-Slave JK Flip-Flop Race-around Condition A/D and D/A Converters Analog-to-Digital Converter Digital-to-Analog Converter DAC and ADC ICs Realization of Logic Gates NOT Gate from NAND Gate OR Gate from NAND Gate AND Gate from NAND Gate NOR Gate from NAND Gate XOR Gate from NAND Gate XNOR Gate from NAND Gate NOT Gate from NOR Gate OR Gate from NOR Gate AND Gate from NOR Gate NAND Gate from NOR Gate XOR Gate from NOR Gate XNOR Gate from NOR Gate NAND/NOR Gate using CMOS Full Subtractor using NAND Gate AND Gate Using 2:1 MUX OR Gate Using 2:1 MUX NOT Gate Using 2:1 MUX Memory Devices Memory Devices RAM and ROM Cache Memory Design Programmable Logic Devices Programmable Logic Devices Programmable Logic Array Programmable Array Logic Field Programmable Gate Arrays Digital Electronics Families Digital Electronics Families CPU Architecture CPU Architecture Digital Electronics - Quick Guide Digital Electronics - Resources Digital Electronics - Discussion Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing AI Based Resume Builder Personal AI Study Assistant Generate Coding Logic HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Digital Electronics - Counters Previous Quiz Next Counter is a sequential circuit. A digital circuit which is used for a counting pulses is known counter. Counter is the widest application of flip-flops. It is a group of flip-flops with a clock signal applied. Counters are of two types. Asynchronous or Ripple Counters Synchronous Counters Asynchronous or Ripple Counters The logic diagram of a 2-bit ripple up counter is shown in figure. The toggle (T) flip-flop are being used. But we can use the JK flip-flop also with J and K connected permanently to logic 1. External clock is applied to the clock input of flip-flop A and Q A output is applied to the clock input of the next flip-flop i.e. FF-B. Logical Diagram Operation Sr.No Condition Operation 1 Initially let both the FFs be in the reset state Q B Q A = 00 initially 2 After 1st negative clock edge As soon as the first negative clock edge is applied, FF-A will toggle and Q A will be equal to 1. Q A is connected to clock input of FF-B. Since Q A has changed from 0 to 1, it is treated as the positive clock edge by FF-B. There is no change in Q B because FF-B is a negative edge triggered FF. Q B Q A = 01 after the first clock pulse. 3 After 2nd negative clock edge On the arrival of second negative clock edge, FF-A toggles again and Q A = 0. The change in Q A acts as a negative clock edge for FF-B. So it will also toggle, and Q B will be 1. Q B Q A = 10 after the second clock pulse. 4 After 3rd negative clock edge On the arrival of 3rd negative clock edge, FF-A toggles again and Q A become 1 from 0. Since this is a positive going change, FF-B does not respond to it and remains inactive. So Q B does not change and continues to be equal to 1. Q B Q A = 11 after the third clock pulse. 5 After 4th negative clock edge On the arrival of 4th negative clock edge, FF-A toggles again and Q A becomes 1 from 0. This negative change in Q A acts as clock pulse for FF-B. Hence it toggles to change Q B from 1 to 0. Q B Q A = 00 after the fourth clock pulse. Truth Table Advertisement - 00:35 00:00 Ad will close in: 3 seconds or click to close Synchronous Counters If the "clock" pulses are applied to all the flip-flops in a counter simultaneously, then such a counter is called as synchronous counter. 2-bit Synchronous Up Counter The J A and K A inputs of FF-A are tied to logic 1. So FF-A will work as a toggle flip-flop. The J B and K B inputs are connected to Q A . Logical Diagram Operation Sr.No Condition Operation 1 Initially let both the FFs be in the reset state Q B Q A = 00 initially. 2 After 1st negative clock edge As soon as the first negative clock edge is applied, FF-A will toggle and Q A will change from 0 to 1. But at the instant of application of negative clock edge, Q A , J B = K B = 0. Hence FF-B will not change its state. So Q B will remain 0. Q B Q A = 01 after the first clock pulse. 3 After 2nd negative clock edge On the arrival of second negative clock edge, FF-A toggles again and Q A changes from 1 to 0. But at this instant Q A was 1. So J B = K B = 1 and FF-B will toggle. Hence Q B changes from 0 to 1. Q B Q A = 10 after the second clock pulse. 4 After 3rd negative clock edge On application of the third falling clock edge, FF-A will toggle from 0 to 1 but there is no change of state for FF-B. Q B Q A = 11 after the third clock pulse. 5 After 4th negative clock edge On application of the next clock pulse, Q A will change from 1 to 0 as Q B will also change from 1 to 0. Q B Q A = 00 after the fourth clock pulse. Classification of Counters Depending on the way in which the counting progresses, the synchronous or asynchronous counters are classified as follows − Up Counters Down Counters Up/Down Counters UP/DOWN Counter Up counter and down counter is combined together to obtain an UP/DOWN counter. A mode control (M) input is also provided to select either up or down mode. A combinational circuit is required to be designed and used between each pair of flip-flop in order to achieve the up/down operation. Type of Up/Down Counters There are two types of up/down counters − UP/DOWN Ripple Counters UP/DOWN Synchronous Counter UP/DOWN Ripple Counters In the UP/DOWN ripple counter all the FFs operate in the toggle mode. So either T flip-flops or JK flip-flops are to be used. The LSB flip-flop receives clock directly. But the clock to every other FF is obtained from (Q = Q bar) output of the previous FF. UP counting mode (M=0) − The Q output of the preceding FF is connected to the clock of the next stage if up counting is to be achieved. For this mode, the mode select input M is at logic 0 (M=0). DOWN counting mode (M=1) − If M = 1, then the Q bar output of the preceding FF is connected to the next FF. This will operate the counter in the counting mode. Example 3-bit binary up/down ripple counter. 3-bit − hence three FFs are required. UP/DOWN − So a mode control input is essential. For a ripple up counter, the Q output of preceding FF is connected to the clock input of the next one. For a ripple up counter, the Q output of preceding FF is connected to the clock input of the next one. For a ripple down counter, the Q bar output of preceding FF is connected to the clock input of the next one. Let the selection of Q and Q bar output of the preceding FF be controlled by the mode control input M such that, If M = 0, UP counting. So connect Q to CLK. If M = 1, DOWN counting. So connect Q bar to CLK. Block Diagram Truth Table Operation Sr.No Condition Operation 1 Case 1 − With M = 0 (Up counting mode) If M = 0 and M bar = 1, then the AND gates 1 and 3 in fig. will be enabled whereas the AND gates 2 and 4 will be disabled. Hence Q A gets connected to the clock input of FF-B and Q B gets connected to the clock input of FF-C. These connections are same as those for the normal up counter. Thus with M = 0 the circuit work as an up counter. 2 Case 2 − With M = 1 (Down counting mode) If M = 1, then AND gates 2 and 4 in fig. are enabled whereas the AND gates 1 and 3 are disabled. Hence Q A bar gets connected to the clock input of FF-B and Q B bar gets connected to the clock input of FF-C. These connections will produce a down counter. Thus with M = 1 the circuit works as a down counter. Modulus Counter (MOD-N Counter) The 2-bit ripple counter is called as MOD-4 counter and 3-bit ripple counter is called as MOD-8 counter. So in general, an n-bit ripple counter is called as modulo-N counter. Where, MOD number = 2 n . Type of Modulus 2-bit up or down (MOD-4) 3-bit up or down (MOD-8) 4-bit up or down (MOD-16) Application of Counters Frequency counters Digital clock Time measurement A to D converter Frequency divider circuits Digital triangular wave generator. Print Page Previous Next Advertisements TOP TUTORIALS Python Tutorial Java Tutorial C++ Tutorial C Programming Tutorial C# Tutorial PHP Tutorial R Tutorial HTML Tutorial CSS Tutorial JavaScript Tutorial SQL Tutorial TRENDING TECHNOLOGIES Cloud Computing Tutorial Amazon Web Services Tutorial Microsoft Azure Tutorial Git Tutorial Ethical Hacking Tutorial Docker Tutorial Kubernetes Tutorial DSA Tutorial Spring Boot Tutorial SDLC Tutorial Unix Tutorial CERTIFICATIONS Business Analytics Certification Java & Spring Boot Advanced Certification Data Science Advanced Certification Cloud Computing And DevOps Advanced Certification In Business Analytics Artificial Intelligence And Machine Learning DevOps Certification Game Development Certification Front-End Developer Certification AWS Certification Training Python Programming Certification COMPILERS & EDITORS Online Java Compiler Online Python Compiler Online Go Compiler Online C Compiler Online C++ Compiler Online C# Compiler Online PHP Compiler Online MATLAB Compiler Online Bash Terminal Online SQL Compiler Online Html Editor ABOUT US OUR TEAM CAREERS JOBS CONTACT US TERMS OF USE PRIVACY POLICY REFUND POLICY COOKIES POLICY FAQ'S Tutorials Point is a leading Ed Tech company striving to provide the best learning material on technical and non-technical subjects. © Copyright 2025. All Rights Reserved.