Full Wave Rectifier and Bridge Rectifier Theory X Register to download premium content! Tutorials AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input/Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies RC Networks Resistors Sequential Logic Systems Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators eBooks Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us English English Deutsch Polski Login Page Register Subscribe Register to download premium content! X Deutsch Polski Subscribe Register Login Page AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Connectivity Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input and Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies Premium RC Networks Resistors Resources Sequential Logic Systems Tools Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators Premium Content Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us Advertisement Home / Diodes / Full Wave Rectifier Full Wave Rectifier Power Diodes can be connected together to form a full wave rectifier that convert AC voltage into pulsating DC voltage for use in power supplies The full wave rectifier converts both halves of each waveform cycle into pulsating DC signal using four rectification diodes. In the previous power diodes tutorial we discussed ways of reducing the ripple or voltage variations on a direct DC voltage by connecting smoothing capacitors across the load resistance. While this method may be suitable for low power applications it is unsuitable to applications which need a “steady and smooth” DC supply voltage. One method to improve on this is to use every half-cycle of the input voltage instead of every other half-cycle. The circuit which allows us to do this is called a Full Wave Rectifier . Like the half wave circuit, a full wave rectifier circuit produces an output voltage or current which is purely DC or has some specified DC component. Full wave rectifiers have some fundamental advantages over their half wave rectifier counterparts. The average (DC) output voltage is higher than for half wave, the output of the full wave rectifier has much less ripple than that of the half wave rectifier producing a smoother output waveform. In a Full Wave Rectifier circuit two diodes are now used, one for each half of the cycle. A multiple winding transformer is used whose secondary winding is split equally into two halves with a common centre tapped connection, (C). This configuration results in each diode conducting in turn when its anode terminal is positive with respect to the transformer centre point C producing an output during both half-cycles, twice that for the half wave rectifier so it is 100% efficient as shown below. Full Wave Rectifier Circuit The full wave rectifier circuit consists of two power diodes connected to a single load resistance ( R L ) with each diode taking it in turn to supply current to the load. When point A of the transformer is positive with respect to point C , diode D 1 conducts in the forward direction as indicated by the arrows. When point B is positive (in the negative half of the cycle) with respect to point C , diode D 2 conducts in the forward direction and the current flowing through resistor R is in the same direction for both half-cycles. As the output voltage across the resistor R is the phasor sum of the two waveforms combined, this type of full wave rectifier circuit is also known as a “bi-phase” circuit. The rectifier ouput with no smoothing capacitor. Full-wave Rectifier Output Waveform As the spaces between each half-wave developed by each diode is now being filled in by the other diode the average DC output voltage across the load resistor is now double that of the single half-wave rectifier circuit and is about 0.637V max of the peak voltage, assuming no losses. Where: V MAX is the maximum peak value in one half of the secondary winding and V RMS is the rms value as: V RMS = 0.7071 V MAX . The DC current is given as: I DC = V DC /R . The peak voltage of the output waveform is the same as before for the half-wave rectifier provided each half of the transformer windings have the same rms voltage value. To obtain a different DC voltage output different transformer ratios can be used. The main disadvantage of this type of full wave rectifier circuit is that a larger transformer for a given power output is required with two separate but identical secondary windings making this type of full wave rectifying circuit costly compared to the “Full Wave Bridge Rectifier” circuit equivalent. The Full Wave Bridge Rectifier Another type of circuit that produces the same output waveform as the full wave rectifier circuit above, is that of the Full Wave Bridge Rectifier . This type of single phase rectifier uses four individual rectifying diodes connected in a closed loop “bridge” configuration to produce the desired output. The main advantage of this bridge circuit is that it does not require a special centre tapped transformer, thereby reducing its size and cost. The single secondary winding is connected to one side of the diode bridge network and the load to the other side as shown below. The Diode Bridge Rectifier The four diodes labelled D 1 to D 4 are arranged in “series pairs” with only two diodes conducting current during each half cycle. During the positive half cycle of the supply, diodes D1 and D2 conduct in series while diodes D3 and D4 are reverse biased and the current flows through the load as shown below. The Positive Half-cycle During the negative half cycle of the supply, diodes D3 and D4 conduct in series, but diodes D1 and D2 switch “OFF” as they are now reverse biased. The current flowing through the load is the same direction as before. The Negative Half-cycle As the current flowing through the load is unidirectional, so the voltage developed across the load is also unidirectional the same as for the previous two diode full-wave rectifier, therefore the average DC voltage across the load is 0.637V max . Typical Bridge Rectifier However in reality, during each half cycle the current flows through two diodes instead of just one so the amplitude of the output voltage is two voltage drops ( 2*0.7 = 1.4V ) less than the input V MAX amplitude. The ripple frequency is now twice the supply frequency (e.g. 100Hz for a 50Hz supply or 120Hz for a 60Hz supply.) Although we can use four individual power diodes to make a full wave bridge rectifier, pre-made bridge rectifier components are available “off-the-shelf” in a range of different voltage and current sizes that can be soldered directly into a PCB circuit board or be connected by spade connectors. The image to the right shows a typical single phase bridge rectifier with one corner cut off. This cut-off corner indicates that the terminal nearest to the corner is the positive or +ve output terminal or lead with the opposite (diagonal) lead being the negative or -ve output lead. The other two connecting leads are for the input alternating voltage from a transformer secondary winding. Full wave Rectifier With Smoothing Capacitor We saw in the previous section that the single phase half-wave rectifier produces an output wave every half cycle and that it was not practical to use this type of circuit to produce a steady DC supply. The full-wave bridge rectifier however, gives us a greater mean DC value (0.637 Vmax) with less superimposed ripple while the output waveform is twice that of the frequency of the input supply frequency. We can improve the average DC output of the rectifier while at the same time reducing the AC variation of the rectified output by using smoothing capacitors to filter the output waveform. Smoothing or reservoir capacitors connected in parallel with the load across the output of the full wave bridge rectifier circuit increases the average DC output level even higher as the capacitor acts like a storage device as shown below. Full Wave Rectifier with Smoothing Capacitor The smoothing capacitor converts the full-wave rippled output of the rectifier into a more smooth DC output voltage. We can see the effect it has on the rectified output waveform with different values of smoothing capacitor installed. Using a 5uF Smoothing Capacitor The blue plot on the waveform shows the result of using a 5.0uF smoothing capacitor across the rectifiers output. Previously the load voltage followed the rectified output waveform down to zero volts. Here the 5uF capacitor is charged to the peak voltage of the output DC pulse, but when it drops from its peak voltage back down to zero volts, the capacitor can not discharge as quickly due to the RC time constant of the circuit. This results in the capacitor discharging down to about 3.6 volts, in this example, maintaining the voltage across the load resistor until the capacitor re-charges once again on the next positive slope of the DC pulse. In other words, the capacitor only has time to discharge briefly before the next DC pulse recharges it back up to the peak value. Thus, the DC voltage applied to the load resistor drops only by a small amount. But we can improve this still by increasing the value of the smoothing capacitor as shown. Using a 50uF Smoothing Capacitor Here we have increased the value of the smoothing capacitor ten-fold from 5uF to 50uF which has reduced the ripple increasing the minimum discharge voltage from the previous 3.6 volts to 7.9 volts. However, a load resistance of 1kΩ was chosen to obtain these values, but as the load impedance decreases the load current increases causing the capacitor to discharge more rapidly between charging pulses. The effect of a supplying a heavy load with a single smoothing or reservoir capacitor can be reduced by the use of a larger capacitor which stores more energy and discharges less between charging pulses. Generally for DC power supply circuits the smoothing capacitor is an Aluminium Electrolytic type that has a capacitance value of 100uF or more with repeated DC voltage pulses from the rectifier charging up the capacitor to peak voltage. However, there are two important parameters to consider when choosing a suitable smoothing capacitor and these are its Working Voltage , which must be higher than the no-load output value of the rectifier and its Capacitance Value , which determines the amount of ripple that will appear superimposed on top of the DC voltage. Too low a capacitance value and the capacitor has little effect on the output waveform. But if the smoothing capacitor is sufficiently large enough (parallel capacitors can be used) and the load current is not too large, the output voltage will be almost as smooth as pure DC. As a general rule of thumb, we are looking to have a ripple voltage of less than 100mV peak to peak. The maximum ripple voltage present for a Full Wave Rectifier circuit is not only determined by the value of the smoothing capacitor but by the frequency and load current, and is calculated as: Bridge Rectifier Ripple Voltage Where: I is the DC load current in amps, ƒ is the frequency of the ripple or twice the input frequency in Hertz, and C is the capacitance in Farads. The main advantages of a full-wave bridge rectifier is that it has a smaller AC ripple value for a given load and a smaller reservoir or smoothing capacitor than an equivalent half-wave rectifier. Therefore, the fundamental frequency of the ripple voltage is twice that of the AC supply frequency (100Hz) where for the half-wave rectifier it is exactly equal to the supply frequency (50Hz). The amount of ripple voltage that is superimposed on top of the DC supply voltage by the diodes can be virtually eliminated by adding a much improved π-filter (pi-filter) to the output terminals of the bridge rectifier. This type of low-pass filter consists of two smoothing capacitors, usually of the same value and a choke or inductance across them to introduce a high impedance path to the alternating ripple component Another more practical and cheaper alternative is to use an off the shelf 3-terminal voltage regulator IC, such as a LM78xx (where “xx” stands for the output voltage rating) for a positive output voltage or its inverse equivalent the LM79xx for a negative output voltage which can reduce the ripple by more than 70dB (Datasheet) while delivering a constant output current of over 1 amp. In the next tutorial about diodes, we will look at the Zener Diode which takes advantage of its reverse breakdown voltage characteristic to produce a constant and fixed output voltage across itself. Previous Power Diodes and Rectifiers Next The Zener Diode Read more Tutorials inDiodes 1. Semiconductor Basics 2. PN Junction Theory 3. PN Junction Diode 4. The Signal Diode 5. Power Diodes and Rectifiers 6. Full Wave Rectifier 7. The Zener Diode 8. The Light Emitting Diode 9. Bypass Diodes in Solar Panels 10. Diode Clipping Circuits 11. The Schottky Diode 12. Photodiode Basics 13. Diode Clamping Circuit 585 Comments Join the conversation Cancel reply Error! Please fill all fields. Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Δ Kattu deva I like your electronics tutorials Posted on November 06th 2025 | 3:03 pm Reply Dave Toth I ‘am working on a generator… Mice built a nest in the junction box where the transformers and bridge rectifier are. I was able to retrieve the part numbers on the rectifier… it is a MDA 804… 400v, 25 amp.. The resister is intact.. I checked it with an ohm meter and it has 153 ohm resistance… The capacitor is gone.. I was able to purchase a new rectifier, but I need help on sizing a new resister ( and part number ) plus sizing a capacitor ( and part number ). Exciter voltage is 35 and generator field is 2.5 amps. This is a Thermo – king generator…. It was a three phase, but was rewired to be single phase. Any help would be greatly appreciated… Have a safe and nice day… Dave T. Posted on August 13th 2025 | 11:40 am Reply Isabella Sarfo-Anrwi The page was helpful Posted on August 08th 2025 | 2:41 pm Reply Hamdy Elhinnawy I noted in an experiment that the resulting volt before smoothing and before putting an R load may be 300 volts while the input AC was only 217 volts. I wonder why this occured. Posted on July 31st 2025 | 6:03 am Reply Bala murugan Very helpful Posted on April 25th 2025 | 7:37 am Reply Olugbenga Abayomi Olufemi I want to know the formula for the output voltage of the full wave rectifier with and without a smoothing capacitor. Posted on April 12th 2025 | 5:03 am Reply John Bondarowicz Thank you. I’m building a PC fan power supply for a take your kid to work display. The PC fan will be my AC input. LED for the load. This will be a fun thing to go over with the kids. Posted on April 10th 2025 | 8:59 pm Reply Halidu mubarak I want to know more Posted on April 05th 2025 | 11:16 am Reply Paulson Full wave bridge rectifier Posted on February 19th 2025 | 5:13 am Reply jeff cooke full-wave rectifiers? can you replace the AC in put with DC input ? Posted on July 06th 2025 | 2:18 pm Reply Wayne Storr Yes you can. It would give the rectifier’s load protection if the DC input supply was reversed Posted on July 06th 2025 | 5:12 pm Reply Khurram Shehzad Please Send me a Long question Calculate Ripple Factor For Bridge rectifier Posted on February 17th 2025 | 2:58 pm Reply Christopher Zizzo Very informative. Thank you. Posted on February 16th 2025 | 8:49 am Reply Joel Hey man. If the DC component of full wave rectifier output is 0.637 Vmax. Then is the AC ripple component 0.363 Vmax? Posted on February 15th 2025 | 9:25 am Reply Wayne Storr Hey man, No. your 0.363 Vmax component doesn’t exist. The ripple factor of an unfiltered single-phase full-wave rectifier supplying a resistive load is: 0.482 Posted on February 16th 2025 | 5:31 am Reply Yan vanna C filter full wave Posted on February 04th 2025 | 6:54 am Reply Faith chepkirui Chat Al Posted on November 21st 2024 | 6:06 am Reply Awan Saya ingin belajar electronic Driver LED Posted on September 05th 2024 | 8:37 am Reply Oluranti isaac Why is it that the Zener diode can conduct in-break down regions can still damage Posted on September 03rd 2024 | 8:49 am Reply Ghafoor In full wave rectifier if the time period of input A.C is 20ms then the frequency of ripple at output in hertz is? Posted on August 27th 2024 | 2:54 pm Reply Wayne Storr 2 x 1/ƒ = 100Hz Posted on August 28th 2024 | 6:35 am Reply Elidah Kampango Am here to learn Posted on August 18th 2024 | 1:28 pm Reply Gaurav फुल वेव रेकटीफायर के द्वारा प्रतिरोध के समानन्तर लोड पर वोल्टेज ज्ञात कीजिए। Posted on August 16th 2024 | 7:51 am Reply Richard Hi, What is Pi ? 1.414 ? How to get 2Vmax/pi = 0.637Vmax ? Tks. Posted on August 11th 2024 | 10:09 pm Reply Mac Pi = approximately 22/7 Posted on November 28th 2024 | 2:12 pm Reply Wayne Storr (2*Vmax)/pi = 2*Vmax x 1/pi = 2*Vmax x 1/3.142 = 2*Vmax x 0.3183 = 2 x Vmax x 0.3183 = Vmax x (2 x 0.3183) = 0.637*Vmax. Its basic maths! Posted on August 12th 2024 | 6:09 am Reply More View More Read more Tutorials inDiodes 1. Semiconductor Basics 2. PN Junction Theory 3. PN Junction Diode 4. The Signal Diode 5. Power Diodes and Rectifiers 6. Full Wave Rectifier 7. The Zener Diode 8. The Light Emitting Diode 9. Bypass Diodes in Solar Panels 10. Diode Clipping Circuits 11. The Schottky Diode 12. Photodiode Basics 13. Diode Clamping Circuit Advertisement Advertisement Close The Basics Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use For Advertisers Contact Sales Media Guide Request Aspencore Network EDN EE Times EEWeb Electronic Products Power Electronics News Embedded Planet Analog TechOnline Electronics Know How Global Network EE Times Asia EE Times China EE Times India EE Times Japan EE Times Taiwan EDN Asia EDN China EDN Taiwan EDN Japan ESM China Connect with Us Facebook All contents are Copyright © 2025 by AspenCore, Inc. All rights reserved. Subscribe Today! Get the latest tutorials delivered to your inbox. Sign up for our free eNewsletter. Close Articles on Trending Technologies Home Whiteboard Online Compilers Practice Articles AI Assistant Jobs Tools Corporate Training Courses Certifications Menu Categories Login Switch theme Category Java JSP iOS HTML Android Python C Programming C++ Programming C# PHP CSS Javascript jQuery SAP SAP HANA Data Structure RDBMS MySQL Mathematics 8085 Microprocessor Operating System Digital Electronics Analysis of Algorithms Mobile Development Front End Web Development Selenium MongoDB Computer Network General Topics Library Courses Certifications Login Menu Show search SQL HTML CSS Javascript Python Java C C++ PHP Scala C# Tailwind CSS Node.js MySQL MongoDB PL/SQL Swift Bootstrap R Machine Learning Blockchain Angular React Native Computer Fundamentals Compiler Design Operating System Data Structure and Algorithms Computer Network DBMS Excel Data Structure Networking RDBMS Operating System Java MS Excel iOS HTML CSS Android Python C Programming C++ C# MongoDB MySQL Javascript PHP Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Best Wearable Health Monitors Technology Farzz Updated on 14-Oct-2025 15:42:19 1K+ Views Wearable health monitors are used to track our body's activities and functionalities. In this article, I will discuss the 7 best health monitors such as smartwatches and smart rings, their features, and prices. Wearable Health Monitors Wearable Health monitors are smart devices that can track health information such as rate of heartbeat, sleeping patterns, and physical activity. These devices can be worn on your wrist, finger, or any other part of your body. The sensors attached to these devices will collect data from your body and that will be available on your smartphone or computer for tracking and analysis. ... Read More Add Prefix to Each Key Name in a Python Dictionary Python Server Side Programming Programming Priya Sharma Updated on 22-Sep-2025 16:18:38 2K+ Views In this article, we will understand how to add a prefix to each key name in a Python dictionary. Dictionaries in Python are collections of unordered items stored in the form of key-value pairs inside curly braces like this − Dictionary = {key: value, ….} Our goal is to add a prefix (i.e., a word or character added at the beginning of another word) to each key name of the dictionary in Python. Suppose a key in a dictionary is "name", on adding the prefix "company_" to it, the key becomes "company_name". For example − #Input dictionary: Dictionary = ... Read More Advertisement - 00:29 00:00 Ad will close in: 3 seconds or click to close How to Keep Your Browser Safe with Chrome VPN Computer Network sudhir sharma Updated on 08-Sep-2025 18:23:26 678 Views A single thoughtless click on a browser tab can cause hours of frantic IT calls, network scans, and security resets in numerous workplaces. Sometimes, when you seek a recipe or a good offer online, you end up with pop-ups or phishing attempts that are not good. These things happen all the time in a world where people are connected. The browser is the front entrance to the Internet, whether you're in a busy office or a peaceful living room. And just like any other front door, it can be closed, reinforced, and guarded, or it can be left open for ... Read More Binary Search Tree to Greater Sum Tree in C++ C++ Server Side Programming Programming Ravi Ranjan Updated on 04-Sep-2025 15:02:56 660 Views In this article, we are given a binary search tree. Our task is to transform the given BST to a Greater Sum tree. A Greater Sum Tree with respect to the given BST is a tree where each node's value is replaced by the sum of all values greater than that node's value in the original BST. Below is an example scenarios to convert the given BST to a Greater Sum Tree: Example Scenario Input: BST inorder traversal= {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8} Output: Greater Sum Tree = {36, 35, 33, 30, 26, 21, 15, ... Read More Check if a String Has at Least One Letter and One Number in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:23:14 5K+ Views To check if a string contains at least one letter and one number in Python, you can - Use any() function with str.isalpha() function and str.isdigit() function to go through characters. Use re.search() function with appropriate regular expressions for pattern matching. Both methods are commonly used for validating input strings where letters and digits are required. Using any() Function with String Methods The any() function can be combined with str.isalpha() or str.isdigit() functions to check if at least one character in the string is a letter or a digit. This approach is used for partial checks within ... Read More Verify String Contains Letters, Numbers, Underscores, and Dashes in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:22:52 13K+ Views To verify that a string contains only letters, numbers, underscores, and dashes in Python - Use re.fullmatch() function with a pattern like [A-Za-z0-9_-]+ for regex-based checking. Use set comparison with all() function for simple logic-based validation. Many systems restrict input to certain characters for security or formatting reasons. In this case, the allowed characters are alphabets (A–Z, a–z), digits (0–9), underscores (_), and hyphens (-). Using Regular Expressions The re module in Python allows you to define patterns to validate strings. You can use re.fullmatch() function to check if the entire string matches a specific pattern, such as ... Read More Python Regular Expression to Check Alphanumeric String Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:22:21 6K+ Views In this article, we focus on how to check if a string is alphanumeric using regular expressions in Python. Regular expressions are very useful for pattern matching and validation. To use them, first import the re library, which is included by default in Python. The regular expression ^[a-zA-Z0-9]+$ matches strings that contain only letters (both uppercase and lowercase) and numbers. This expression returns True if the string is alphanumeric; otherwise, it returns False. Using Regular Expressions By applying the re.match() function with the above pattern, you can check if the entire string contains only alphanumeric characters. Example: Checking an Alphanumeric ... Read More Check If a String Contains Certain Characters in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:21:55 10K+ Views To check if a Python string contains only certain characters, you can use - set Comparison Regular Expressions Character Lists These approaches help you to verify whether every character in the string belongs to a defined set of allowed characters or not. Using Set Comparison You can create a set of allowed characters and check if all characters in the string belong to that set or not. If the string is a subset of the allowed set, it means the string contains only valid (accepted) characters. Example In the following example, we define a set of allowed numeric ... Read More Check Unicode String for Numeric Characters in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:21:31 1K+ Views In Python, Unicode strings can contain numeric characters from various languages and scripts. To check if a Unicode string contains only numeric characters, we can use built-in string methods, regular expressions, or character iteration. These methods ensure that characters like Arabic numerals, Chinese digits, or superscripts are also recognized as valid numeric characters. Using isnumeric() Method The isnumeric() method returns True if all characters in the string are numeric, including Unicode numeric characters like ², ١, 一, etc. If any character is non-numeric or the string is empty, it returns False. Example: Unicode Numeric Characters In the following example, ... Read More Getitem and Setitem in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:16:24 4K+ Views In Python, you can customize many operations like accessing or modifying elements of a list or dictionary using special methods. Two important methods that make your objects behave like lists or dictionaries are: __getitem__: called when you access an item using obj[key]. __setitem__: called when you assign a value using obj[key] = value. These are examples of dunder methods (short for "double underscore"). They are special methods in Python with names that begin and end with double underscores. When you use square bracket syntax on your object: obj[key] automatically triggers __getitem__ obj[key] = value automatically triggers __setitem__ ... Read More 1 2 3 4 5 ... 7779 Next Advertisements TOP TUTORIALS Python Tutorial Java Tutorial C++ Tutorial C Programming Tutorial C# Tutorial PHP Tutorial R Tutorial HTML Tutorial CSS Tutorial JavaScript Tutorial SQL Tutorial TRENDING TECHNOLOGIES Cloud Computing Tutorial Amazon Web Services Tutorial Microsoft Azure Tutorial Git Tutorial Ethical Hacking Tutorial Docker Tutorial Kubernetes Tutorial DSA Tutorial Spring Boot Tutorial SDLC Tutorial Unix Tutorial CERTIFICATIONS Business Analytics Certification Java & Spring Boot Advanced Certification Data Science Advanced Certification Cloud Computing And DevOps Advanced Certification In Business Analytics Artificial Intelligence And Machine Learning DevOps Certification Game Development Certification Front-End Developer Certification AWS Certification Training Python Programming Certification COMPILERS & EDITORS Online Java Compiler Online Python Compiler Online Golang Compiler Online C Compiler Online C++ Compiler Online C# Compiler Online PHP Compiler Online MATLAB Compiler Online Bash Terminal Online SQL Compiler Online Html Editor ABOUT US | OUR TEAM | CAREERS | JOBS | CONTACT US | TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | REFUND POLICY | COOKIES POLICY | FAQ'S Tutorials Point is a leading Ed Tech company striving to provide the best learning material on technical and non-technical subjects. © Copyright 2025. All Rights Reserved.