Page not found - Basic Electronics Tutorials X Register to download premium content! Tutorials AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input/Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies RC Networks Resistors Sequential Logic Systems Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators eBooks Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us English English Deutsch Polski Login Page Register Subscribe Register to download premium content! X Deutsch Polski Subscribe Register Login Page AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Connectivity Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input and Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies Premium RC Networks Resistors Resources Sequential Logic Systems Tools Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators Premium Content Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us Close The Basics Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use For Advertisers Contact Sales Media Guide Request Aspencore Network EDN EE Times EEWeb Electronic Products Power Electronics News Embedded Planet Analog TechOnline Electronics Know How Global Network EE Times Asia EE Times China EE Times India EE Times Japan EE Times Taiwan EDN Asia EDN China EDN Taiwan EDN Japan ESM China Connect with Us Facebook All contents are Copyright © 2025 by AspenCore, Inc. All rights reserved. Subscribe Today! Get the latest tutorials delivered to your inbox. Sign up for our free eNewsletter. Close Articles on Trending Technologies Home Whiteboard Online Compilers Practice Articles AI Assistant Jobs Tools Corporate Training Courses Certifications Menu Categories Login Switch theme Category Java JSP iOS HTML Android Python C Programming C++ Programming C# PHP CSS Javascript jQuery SAP SAP HANA Data Structure RDBMS MySQL Mathematics 8085 Microprocessor Operating System Digital Electronics Analysis of Algorithms Mobile Development Front End Web Development Selenium MongoDB Computer Network General Topics Library Courses Certifications Login Menu Show search SQL HTML CSS Javascript Python Java C C++ PHP Scala C# Tailwind CSS Node.js MySQL MongoDB PL/SQL Swift Bootstrap R Machine Learning Blockchain Angular React Native Computer Fundamentals Compiler Design Operating System Data Structure and Algorithms Computer Network DBMS Excel Data Structure Networking RDBMS Operating System Java MS Excel iOS HTML CSS Android Python C Programming C++ C# MongoDB MySQL Javascript PHP Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Best Wearable Health Monitors Technology Farzz Updated on 14-Oct-2025 15:42:19 1K+ Views Wearable health monitors are used to track our body's activities and functionalities. In this article, I will discuss the 7 best health monitors such as smartwatches and smart rings, their features, and prices. Wearable Health Monitors Wearable Health monitors are smart devices that can track health information such as rate of heartbeat, sleeping patterns, and physical activity. These devices can be worn on your wrist, finger, or any other part of your body. The sensors attached to these devices will collect data from your body and that will be available on your smartphone or computer for tracking and analysis. ... Read More Add Prefix to Each Key Name in a Python Dictionary Python Server Side Programming Programming Priya Sharma Updated on 22-Sep-2025 16:18:38 2K+ Views In this article, we will understand how to add a prefix to each key name in a Python dictionary. Dictionaries in Python are collections of unordered items stored in the form of key-value pairs inside curly braces like this − Dictionary = {key: value, ….} Our goal is to add a prefix (i.e., a word or character added at the beginning of another word) to each key name of the dictionary in Python. Suppose a key in a dictionary is "name", on adding the prefix "company_" to it, the key becomes "company_name". For example − #Input dictionary: Dictionary = ... Read More Advertisement - 00:02 00:00 Ad will close in: 3 seconds or click to close How to Keep Your Browser Safe with Chrome VPN Computer Network sudhir sharma Updated on 08-Sep-2025 18:23:26 678 Views A single thoughtless click on a browser tab can cause hours of frantic IT calls, network scans, and security resets in numerous workplaces. Sometimes, when you seek a recipe or a good offer online, you end up with pop-ups or phishing attempts that are not good. These things happen all the time in a world where people are connected. The browser is the front entrance to the Internet, whether you're in a busy office or a peaceful living room. And just like any other front door, it can be closed, reinforced, and guarded, or it can be left open for ... Read More Binary Search Tree to Greater Sum Tree in C++ C++ Server Side Programming Programming Ravi Ranjan Updated on 04-Sep-2025 15:02:56 660 Views In this article, we are given a binary search tree. Our task is to transform the given BST to a Greater Sum tree. A Greater Sum Tree with respect to the given BST is a tree where each node's value is replaced by the sum of all values greater than that node's value in the original BST. Below is an example scenarios to convert the given BST to a Greater Sum Tree: Example Scenario Input: BST inorder traversal= {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8} Output: Greater Sum Tree = {36, 35, 33, 30, 26, 21, 15, ... Read More Check if a String Has at Least One Letter and One Number in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:23:14 5K+ Views To check if a string contains at least one letter and one number in Python, you can - Use any() function with str.isalpha() function and str.isdigit() function to go through characters. Use re.search() function with appropriate regular expressions for pattern matching. Both methods are commonly used for validating input strings where letters and digits are required. Using any() Function with String Methods The any() function can be combined with str.isalpha() or str.isdigit() functions to check if at least one character in the string is a letter or a digit. This approach is used for partial checks within ... Read More Verify String Contains Letters, Numbers, Underscores, and Dashes in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:22:52 13K+ Views To verify that a string contains only letters, numbers, underscores, and dashes in Python - Use re.fullmatch() function with a pattern like [A-Za-z0-9_-]+ for regex-based checking. Use set comparison with all() function for simple logic-based validation. Many systems restrict input to certain characters for security or formatting reasons. In this case, the allowed characters are alphabets (A–Z, a–z), digits (0–9), underscores (_), and hyphens (-). Using Regular Expressions The re module in Python allows you to define patterns to validate strings. You can use re.fullmatch() function to check if the entire string matches a specific pattern, such as ... Read More Python Regular Expression to Check Alphanumeric String Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:22:21 6K+ Views In this article, we focus on how to check if a string is alphanumeric using regular expressions in Python. Regular expressions are very useful for pattern matching and validation. To use them, first import the re library, which is included by default in Python. The regular expression ^[a-zA-Z0-9]+$ matches strings that contain only letters (both uppercase and lowercase) and numbers. This expression returns True if the string is alphanumeric; otherwise, it returns False. Using Regular Expressions By applying the re.match() function with the above pattern, you can check if the entire string contains only alphanumeric characters. Example: Checking an Alphanumeric ... Read More Check If a String Contains Certain Characters in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:21:55 10K+ Views To check if a Python string contains only certain characters, you can use - set Comparison Regular Expressions Character Lists These approaches help you to verify whether every character in the string belongs to a defined set of allowed characters or not. Using Set Comparison You can create a set of allowed characters and check if all characters in the string belong to that set or not. If the string is a subset of the allowed set, it means the string contains only valid (accepted) characters. Example In the following example, we define a set of allowed numeric ... Read More Check Unicode String for Numeric Characters in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:21:31 1K+ Views In Python, Unicode strings can contain numeric characters from various languages and scripts. To check if a Unicode string contains only numeric characters, we can use built-in string methods, regular expressions, or character iteration. These methods ensure that characters like Arabic numerals, Chinese digits, or superscripts are also recognized as valid numeric characters. Using isnumeric() Method The isnumeric() method returns True if all characters in the string are numeric, including Unicode numeric characters like ², ١, 一, etc. If any character is non-numeric or the string is empty, it returns False. Example: Unicode Numeric Characters In the following example, ... Read More Getitem and Setitem in Python Python Server Side Programming Programming Sarika Singh Updated on 02-Sep-2025 13:16:24 4K+ Views In Python, you can customize many operations like accessing or modifying elements of a list or dictionary using special methods. Two important methods that make your objects behave like lists or dictionaries are: __getitem__: called when you access an item using obj[key]. __setitem__: called when you assign a value using obj[key] = value. These are examples of dunder methods (short for "double underscore"). They are special methods in Python with names that begin and end with double underscores. When you use square bracket syntax on your object: obj[key] automatically triggers __getitem__ obj[key] = value automatically triggers __setitem__ ... Read More 1 2 3 4 5 ... 7779 Next Advertisements TOP TUTORIALS Python Tutorial Java Tutorial C++ Tutorial C Programming Tutorial C# Tutorial PHP Tutorial R Tutorial HTML Tutorial CSS Tutorial JavaScript Tutorial SQL Tutorial TRENDING TECHNOLOGIES Cloud Computing Tutorial Amazon Web Services Tutorial Microsoft Azure Tutorial Git Tutorial Ethical Hacking Tutorial Docker Tutorial Kubernetes Tutorial DSA Tutorial Spring Boot Tutorial SDLC Tutorial Unix Tutorial CERTIFICATIONS Business Analytics Certification Java & Spring Boot Advanced Certification Data Science Advanced Certification Cloud Computing And DevOps Advanced Certification In Business Analytics Artificial Intelligence And Machine Learning DevOps Certification Game Development Certification Front-End Developer Certification AWS Certification Training Python Programming Certification COMPILERS & EDITORS Online Java Compiler Online Python Compiler Online Golang Compiler Online C Compiler Online C++ Compiler Online C# Compiler Online PHP Compiler Online MATLAB Compiler Online Bash Terminal Online SQL Compiler Online Html Editor ABOUT US | OUR TEAM | CAREERS | JOBS | CONTACT US | TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | REFUND POLICY | COOKIES POLICY | FAQ'S Tutorials Point is a leading Ed Tech company striving to provide the best learning material on technical and non-technical subjects. © Copyright 2025. All Rights Reserved.