Sequential Logic Circuits and the SR Flip-flop X Register to download premium content! Tutorials AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input/Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies RC Networks Resistors Sequential Logic Systems Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators eBooks Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us English English Deutsch Polski Login Page Register Subscribe Register to download premium content! X Deutsch Polski Subscribe Register Login Page AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Connectivity Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input and Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies Premium RC Networks Resistors Resources Sequential Logic Systems Tools Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators Premium Content Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us Advertisement Home / Sequential Logic / Sequential Logic Circuits Sequential Logic Circuits Sequential Logic Circuits use flip-flops as memory elements and in which their output is dependent on the input state Sequential Logic Circuits Use Memory Elements Unlike Combinational Logic circuits that change state depending upon the actual signals being applied to their inputs at that time, Sequential Logic circuits have some form of inherent “Memory” built in. This means that sequential logic circuits are able to take into account their previous input state as well as those actually present, a sort of “before” and “after” effect is involved with sequential circuits. In other words, the output state of a “sequential logic circuit” is a function of the following three states, the “present input”, the “past input” and/or the “past output”. Sequential Logic circuits remember these conditions and stay fixed in their current state until the next clock signal changes one of the states, giving sequential logic circuits “Memory”. Sequential logic circuits are generally termed as two state or Bistable devices which can have their output or outputs set in one of two basic states, a logic level “1” or a logic level “0” and will remain “latched” (hence the name latch) indefinitely in this current state or condition until some other input trigger pulse or signal is applied which will cause the bistable to change its state once again. Sequential Logic Representation The word “Sequential” means that things happen in a “sequence”, one after another and in Sequential Logic circuits, the actual clock signal determines when things will happen next. Simple sequential logic circuits can be constructed from standard Bistable circuits such as: Flip-flops , Latches and Counters and which themselves can be made by simply connecting together universal NAND Gates and/or NOR Gates in a particular combinational way to produce the required sequential circuit. Classification of Sequential Logic As standard logic gates are the building blocks of combinational circuits, bistable latches and flip-flops are the basic building blocks of sequential logic circuits. Sequential logic circuits can be constructed to produce either simple edge-triggered flip-flops or more complex sequential circuits such as storage registers, shift registers, memory devices or counters. Either way sequential logic circuits can be divided into the following three main categories: 1. Event Driven – asynchronous circuits that change state immediately when enabled. 2. Clock Driven – synchronous circuits that are synchronised to a specific clock signal. 3. Pulse Driven – which is a combination of the two that responds to triggering pulses. As well as the two logic states mentioned above logic level “1” and logic level “0”, a third element is introduced that separates sequential logic circuits from their combinational logic counterparts, namely TIME . Sequential logic circuits return back to their original steady state once reset and sequential circuits with loops or feedback paths are said to be “cyclic” in nature. We now know that in sequential circuits changes occur only on the application of a clock signal making it synchronous, otherwise the circuit is asynchronous and depends upon an external input. To retain their current state, sequential circuits rely on feedback and this occurs when a fraction of the output is fed back to the input and this is demonstrated as: Sequential Feedback Loop The two inverters or NOT gates are connected in series with the output at Q fed back to the input. Unfortunately, this configuration never changes state because the output will always be the same, either a “1” or a “0”, it is permanently set. However, we can see how feedback works by examining the most basic sequential logic components, called the SR flip-flop . Sequential Logic SR Flip-Flops The SR flip-flop , also known as a SR Latch , can be considered as one of the most basic sequential logic circuit possible. This simple flip-flop is basically a one-bit memory bistable device that has two inputs, one which will “SET” the device (meaning the output = “1”), and is labelled S and one which will “RESET” the device (meaning the output = “0”), labelled R . Then the SR description stands for “Set-Reset”. The reset input resets the flip-flop back to its original state with an output Q that will be either at a logic level “1” or logic “0” depending upon this set/reset condition. A basic NAND gate SR flip-flop circuit provides feedback from both of its outputs back to its opposing inputs and is commonly used in memory circuits to store a single data bit. Then the SR flip-flop actually has three inputs, Set , Reset and its current output Q relating to it’s current state or history. The term “ Flip-flop ” relates to the actual operation of the device, as it can be “flipped” into one logic Set state or “flopped” back into the opposing logic Reset state. Sequential Logic – The NAND Gate SR Flip-Flop The simplest way to make any basic single bit set-reset SR flip-flop is to connect together a pair of cross-coupled 2-input NAND gates as shown, to form a Set-Reset Bistable also known as an active LOW SR NAND Gate Latch , so that there is feedback from each output to one of the other NAND gate inputs. This device consists of two inputs, one called the Set , S and the other called the Reset , R with two corresponding outputs Q and its inverse or complement Q (not-Q) as shown below. The Basic SR Flip-flop The Set State Consider the circuit shown above. If the input R is at logic level “0” (R = 0) and input S is at logic level “1” (S = 1), the NAND gate Y has at least one of its inputs at logic “0” therefore, its output Q must be at a logic level “1” (NAND Gate principles). Output Q is also fed back to input “A” and so both inputs to NAND gate X are at logic level “1”, and therefore its output Q must be at logic level “0”. Again NAND gate principals. If the reset input R changes state, and goes HIGH to logic “1” with S remaining HIGH also at logic level “1”, NAND gate Y inputs are now R = “1” and B = “0”. Since one of its inputs is still at logic level “0” the output at Q still remains HIGH at logic level “1” and there is no change of state. Therefore, the flip-flop circuit is said to be “Latched” or “Set” with Q = “1” and Q = “0”. Reset State In this second stable state, Q is at logic level “0”, ( not Q = “0”) its inverse output at Q is at logic level “1”, ( Q = “1”), and is given by R = “1” and S = “0”. As gate X has one of its inputs at logic “0” its output Q must equal logic level “1” (again NAND gate principles). Output Q is fed back to input “B”, so both inputs to NAND gate Y are at logic “1”, therefore, Q = “0”. If the set input, S now changes state to logic “1” with input R remaining at logic “1”, output Q still remains LOW at logic level “0” and there is no change of state. Therefore, the flip-flop circuits “Reset” state has also been latched and we can define this “set/reset” action in the following truth table. Truth Table for this Set-Reset Function State S R Q Q Description Set 1 0 0 1 Set Q » 1 1 1 0 1 no change Reset 0 1 1 0 Reset Q » 0 1 1 1 0 no change Invalid 0 0 1 1 Invalid Condition It can be seen that when both inputs S = “1” and R = “1” the outputs Q and Q can be at either logic level “1” or “0”, depending upon the state of the inputs S or R BEFORE this input condition existed. Therefore the condition of S = R = “1” does not change the state of the outputs Q and Q . However, the input state of S = “0” and R = “0” is an undesirable or invalid condition and must be avoided. The condition of S = R = “0” causes both outputs Q and Q to be HIGH together at logic level “1” when we would normally want Q to be the inverse of Q . The result is that the flip-flop looses control of Q and Q , and if the two inputs are now switched “HIGH” again after this condition to logic “1”, the flip-flop becomes unstable and switches to an unknown data state based upon the unbalance as shown in the following switching diagram. S-R Flip-flop Switching Diagram This unbalance can cause one of the outputs to switch faster than the other resulting in the flip-flop switching to one state or the other which may not be the required state and data corruption will exist. This unstable condition is generally known as its Meta-stable state. Then, a simple NAND gate SR flip-flop or NAND gate SR latch can be set by applying a logic “0”, (LOW) condition to its Set input and reset again by then applying a logic “0” to its Reset input. The SR flip-flop is said to be in an “invalid” condition (Meta-stable) if both the set and reset inputs are activated simultaneously. As we have seen above, the basic NAND gate SR flip-flop requires logic “0” inputs to flip or change state from Q to Q and vice versa. We can however, change this basic flip-flop circuit to one that changes state by the application of positive going input signals with the addition of two extra NAND gates connected as inverters to the S and R inputs as shown. Positive NAND Gate SR Flip-flop As well as using NAND gates, it is also possible to construct simple one-bit SR Flip-flops using two cross-coupled NOR gates connected in the same configuration. The circuit will work in a similar way to the NAND gate circuit above, except that the inputs are active HIGH and the invalid condition exists when both its inputs are at logic level “1”, and this is shown below. The NOR Gate SR Flip-flop Sequential Logic as Switch Debounce Circuits Edge-triggered flip-flops require a nice clean signal transition, and one practical use of this type of set-reset circuit is as a latch used to help eliminate mechanical switch “bounce”. As its name implies, switch bounce occurs when the contacts of any mechanically operated switch, push-button or keypad are operated and the internal switch contacts do not fully close cleanly, but bounce together first before closing (or opening) when the switch is pressed. This gives rise to a series of individual pulses which can be as long as tens of milliseconds that an electronic system or circuit such as a digital counter may see as a series of logic pulses instead of one long single pulse and behave incorrectly. For example, during this bounce period the output voltage can fluctuate wildly and may register multiple input counts instead of one single count. Then set-reset SR Flip-flops or Bistable Latch circuits can be used to eliminate this kind of problem and this is demonstrated below. SR Flip Flop Switch Debounce Circuit Depending upon the current state of the output, if the set or reset buttons are depressed the output will change over in the manner described above and any additional unwanted inputs (bounces) from the mechanical action of the switch will have no effect on the output at Q . When the other button is pressed, the very first contact will cause the latch to change state, but any additional mechanical switch bounces will also have no effect. The SR flip-flop can then be RESET automatically after a short period of time, for example 0.5 seconds, so as to register any additional and intentional repeat inputs from the same switch contacts, such as multiple inputs from a keyboards “RETURN” key. Commonly available IC’s specifically made to overcome the problem of switch bounce are the MAX6816, single input, MAX6817, dual input and the MAX6818 octal input switch debouncer IC’s. These chips contain the necessary flip-flop circuitry to provide clean interfacing of mechanical switches to digital systems. Set-Reset bistable latches can also be used as Monostable (one-shot) pulse generators to generate a single output pulse, either high or low, of some specified width or time period for timing or control purposes. The 74LS279 is a Quad SR Bistable Latch IC, which contains four individual NAND type bistable’s within a single chip enabling switch debounce or monostable/astable clock circuits to be easily constructed. Quad SR Bistable Latch 74LS279 Sequential Logic – Gated or Clocked SR Flip-Flops It is sometimes desirable in sequential logic circuits to have a bistable SR flip-flop that only changes state when certain conditions are met regardless of the condition of either the Set or the Reset inputs. By connecting a 2-input AND gate in series with each input terminal of the SR Flip-flop a Gated SR Flip-flop can be created. This extra conditional input is called an “Enable” input and is given the prefix of “ EN “. The addition of this input means that the output at Q only changes state when it is HIGH and can therefore be used as a clock (CLK) input making it level-sensitive as shown below. Gated SR Flip-flop When the Enable input “EN” is at logic level “0”, the outputs of the two AND gates are also at logic level “0”, (AND Gate principles) regardless of the condition of the two inputs S and R , latching the two outputs Q and Q into their last known state. When the enable input “EN” changes to logic level “1” the circuit responds as a normal SR bistable flip-flop with the two AND gates becoming transparent to the Set and Reset signals. This additional enable input can also be connected to a clock timing signal (CLK) adding clock synchronisation to the flip-flop creating what is sometimes called a “ Clocked SR Flip-flop “. So a Gated Bistable SR Flip-flop operates as a standard bistable latch but the outputs are only activated when a logic “1” is applied to its EN input and deactivated by a logic “0”. In the next tutorial about Sequential Logic Circuits , we will look at another type of simple edge-triggered flip-flop which is very similar to the RS flip-flop called a JK Flip-flop named after its inventor, Jack Kilby. The JK flip-flop is the most widely used of all the flip-flop designs as it is considered to be a universal device. Next The JK Flip Flop Read more Tutorials inSequential Logic 1. Sequential Logic Circuits 2. The JK Flip Flop 3. Multivibrators 4. The D-type Flip Flop 5. The Shift Register 6. Johnson Ring Counter 7. Conversion of Flip-flops 8. The Toggle Flip-flop 202 Comments Join the conversation Cancel reply Error! Please fill all fields. Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Δ Arden Get well soon Posted on March 15th 2025 | 1:34 am Reply Joshua wanpis I like it Posted on October 28th 2024 | 1:05 pm Reply Benjamin More answers for my questions Posted on August 06th 2024 | 8:58 am Reply Melese Birhanu I admire u ,Perfectly !! Posted on April 27th 2024 | 5:59 pm Reply K.K.S.Sampath Dharmasiri Please check The diagram SR using NOR gates. S,R or Q,Qbar need to interchange . Please comment . Posted on April 05th 2024 | 3:43 am Reply EMMANUEL TESLA I like these content Posted on March 14th 2024 | 6:48 am Reply patti knuth The author apparently has no idea of the difference between a latch and a flip-flop. There is no such thing as an SR flip flop. Posted on October 20th 2023 | 10:42 pm Reply Wayne Storr Oh, really. Let’s start with some basic facts about the difference between a Latch and a Flip-flop. An asynchronous flip-flop is a bistable storage element which has two inputs. A Set (S) and a Reset (R), plus two outputs, Q and not-Q. The set-reset (SR) flip-flop has two stable states and the ability to indefinitely hold a specific state (0 or 1) until it is toggled between either of these two states. Synchronous SR flip-flops load a new state when triggered by the transition of an input clock signal. The main types of flip-flop being: SR (sometimes termed RS), and JK. A relative of the flip-flop is the data latch, which is also capable of retaining its state indefinitely due to its ability to latch and remember data. A latch does not have a clock signal to change state but has a data input (D), a Q output, and an enable (EN) input. When enabled, the input data is passed directly to the output. That is, a data latch operates more like an AND gate than a bistable storage Set-Reset device. Also latches are level sensitive, whereas flip-flops are edge sensitive. The main types of latch are: D-type, and T-type. Then, it appears you are the one confused about the difference between latches and flip-flops and the existance of Set-Reset flip-flops as one of the simplest 1-bit memory storage cicruits. Posted on October 21st 2023 | 10:13 am Reply James Bowman what is this man Posted on June 13th 2023 | 8:46 am Reply Jeff I like the site Posted on June 04th 2023 | 3:06 pm Reply xfghfhfhf youre actually and npc Posted on March 13th 2024 | 4:09 pm Reply Abdoun very informative . Posted on May 20th 2023 | 12:55 am Reply Rabiu Suleiman Electronic s is great Posted on March 08th 2023 | 5:39 pm Reply Edmond Joseph Very nice Posted on November 07th 2022 | 7:45 pm Reply Gaurav Pandey So very basic from Posted on May 26th 2022 | 1:26 pm Reply Kurdapya Explain The State of A sequential Circuit A state variable in a sequential circuit represents the single-bit variable Q stored in a memory element in circuit. – Each memory element may be in state 0 or state 1 depending on the current value stored in the memory element. The State of A sequential Circuit: – The collection of all state variables (memory element stored values) that at any time contain all the information about the past necessary to account for the circuit’s future behavior. – A sequential circuit that contains n memory elements could be in one of a maximum of 2n states at any given time depending on the stored values in the memory elements. – Sequential Circuit State transition: A change in the stored values in memory elements thus changing the sequential circuit from one state to another. Posted on May 18th 2022 | 2:44 pm Reply Khanyiso Mathe This is so powerful. Which sequencing is used in engine control unit C.P.U. Posted on April 17th 2022 | 2:33 pm Reply Ruth Which logic gate do you add to convert an S-R latch to an S-R latch with Enable? Posted on March 29th 2022 | 8:25 am Reply rajashree Nand Gate Posted on July 04th 2023 | 8:24 am Reply Wayne Storr Please read the Gated SR flip-flop part of the tutorial Posted on March 29th 2022 | 10:11 am Reply Mark Why are the outputs stated to be inverse? I see no reason that the inputs 0 and 0 could not generate outputs of 1 and 1 apart from the assertion that the outputs are inverse. Noone seems to explain why these outputs cannot be identical. Posted on March 02nd 2022 | 3:59 am Reply Wayne Storr Because then it would not be a Bistable Latch, just another logic circuit. You could add an inverter (NOT Gate) onto one of the outputs to achieve 0-0 or 1-1. But what’s the point. Posted on March 02nd 2022 | 7:47 am Reply Anne Marie Different between JK flip flop and SR flip flop Posted on January 28th 2022 | 7:23 am Reply Wayne Storr Please read the tutorials about JK and SR flip-flops Posted on January 28th 2022 | 7:29 am Reply More Dhruva N S wondrfull Posted on January 24th 2022 | 6:47 am Reply MUHAMMAD ALI In the circuit of Figure 1, inputs A, B, and C are all initially LOW. Output Y is supposed to go HIGH only when A, B, and C go HIGH in a certain sequence. Analyze the circuit to (a) Determine the sequence that will make Y go HIGH. (b) Explain why the START pulse is needed. (c) Modify this circuit to use D FFs. Posted on January 17th 2022 | 8:55 pm Reply View More Read more Tutorials inSequential Logic 1. Sequential Logic Circuits 2. The JK Flip Flop 3. Multivibrators 4. The D-type Flip Flop 5. The Shift Register 6. Johnson Ring Counter 7. Conversion of Flip-flops 8. The Toggle Flip-flop Advertisement Advertisement Close The Basics Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use For Advertisers Contact Sales Media Guide Request Aspencore Network EDN EE Times EEWeb Electronic Products Power Electronics News Embedded Planet Analog TechOnline Electronics Know How Global Network EE Times Asia EE Times China EE Times India EE Times Japan EE Times Taiwan EDN Asia EDN China EDN Taiwan EDN Japan ESM China Connect with Us Facebook All contents are Copyright © 2025 by AspenCore, Inc. All rights reserved. Subscribe Today! Get the latest tutorials delivered to your inbox. Sign up for our free eNewsletter. Close Digital Electronics - Flip-Flops Home Whiteboard Online Compilers Practice Articles Tools Chapters Categories Library Courses Certifications Login Digital Electronics - Home Digital Electronics Basics Types of Digital Systems Types of Signals Logic Levels And Pulse Waveforms Digital System Components Digital Logic Operations Digital Systems Advantages Number Systems Number Systems Binary Numbers Representation Binary Arithmetic Signed Binary Arithmetic Octal Arithmetic Hexadecimal Arithmetic Complement Arithmetic Base Conversions Base Conversions Binary to Decimal Conversion Decimal to Binary Conversion Binary to Octal Conversion Octal to Binary Conversion Octal to Decimal Conversion Decimal to Octal Conversion Hexadecimal to Binary Conversion Binary to Hexadecimal Conversion Hexadecimal to Decimal Conversion Decimal to Hexadecimal Conversion Octal to Hexadecimal Conversion Hexadecimal to Octal Conversion Binary Codes Binary Codes 8421 BCD Code Excess-3 Code Gray Code ASCII Codes EBCDIC Code Code Conversion Error Detection & Correction Codes Logic Gates Logic Gates AND Gate OR Gate NOT Gate Universal Gates XOR Gate XNOR Gate CMOS Logic Gate OR Gate Using Diode Resistor Logic AND Gate vs OR Gate Two Level Logic Realization Threshold Logic Boolean Algebra Boolean Algebra Laws of Boolean Algebra Boolean Functions DeMorgan's Theorem SOP and POS Form POS to Standard POS Form Minimization Techniques K-Map Minimization Three Variable K-Map Four Variable K-Map Five Variable K-Map Six Variable K-Map Don't Care Condition Quine-McCluskey Method Min Terms and Max Terms Canonical and Standard Form Max Term Representation Simplification using Boolean Algebra Combinational Logic Circuits Digital Combinational Circuits Digital Arithmetic Circuits Multiplexers Multiplexer Design Procedure Mux Universal Gate 2-Variable Function Using 4:1 Mux 3-Variable Function Using 8:1 Mux Demultiplexers Mux vs Demux Parity Bit Generator and Checker Comparators Encoders Keyboard Encoders Priority Encoders Decoders Arithmetic Logic Unit 7-Segment LED Display Code Converters Code Converters Binary to Decimal Converter Decimal to BCD Converter BCD to Decimal Converter Binary to Gray Code Converter Gray Code to Binary Converter BCD to Excess-3 Converter Excess-3 to BCD Converter Adders Half Adders Full Adders Serial Adders Parallel Adders Full Adder using Half Adder Half Adder vs Full Adder Full Adder with NAND Gates Half Adder with NAND Gates Binary Adder-Subtractor Subtractors Half Subtractors Full Subtractors Parallel Subtractors Full Subtractor using 2 Half Subtractors Half Subtractor using NAND Gates Sequential Logic Circuits Digital Sequential Circuits Clock Signal and Triggering Latches Shift Registers Shift Register Applications Binary Registers Bidirectional Shift Register Counters Binary Counters Non-binary Counter Design of Synchronous Counter Synchronous vs Asynchronous Counter Finite State Machines Algorithmic State Machines Flip Flops Flip-Flops Conversion of Flip-Flops D Flip-Flops JK Flip-Flops T Flip-Flops SR Flip-Flops Clocked SR Flip-Flop Unclocked SR Flip-Flop Clocked JK Flip-Flop JK to T Flip-Flop SR to JK Flip-Flop Triggering Methods:Flip-Flop Edge-Triggered Flip-Flop Master-Slave JK Flip-Flop Race-around Condition A/D and D/A Converters Analog-to-Digital Converter Digital-to-Analog Converter DAC and ADC ICs Realization of Logic Gates NOT Gate from NAND Gate OR Gate from NAND Gate AND Gate from NAND Gate NOR Gate from NAND Gate XOR Gate from NAND Gate XNOR Gate from NAND Gate NOT Gate from NOR Gate OR Gate from NOR Gate AND Gate from NOR Gate NAND Gate from NOR Gate XOR Gate from NOR Gate XNOR Gate from NOR Gate NAND/NOR Gate using CMOS Full Subtractor using NAND Gate AND Gate Using 2:1 MUX OR Gate Using 2:1 MUX NOT Gate Using 2:1 MUX Memory Devices Memory Devices RAM and ROM Cache Memory Design Programmable Logic Devices Programmable Logic Devices Programmable Logic Array Programmable Array Logic Field Programmable Gate Arrays Digital Electronics Families Digital Electronics Families CPU Architecture CPU Architecture Digital Electronics - Quick Guide Digital Electronics - Resources Digital Electronics - Discussion Selected Reading UPSC IAS Exams Notes Developer's Best Practices Questions and Answers Effective Resume Writing AI Based Resume Builder Personal AI Study Assistant Generate Coding Logic HR Interview Questions Computer Glossary Who is Who Digital Electronics - Flip-Flops Previous Quiz Next A flip-flop is a sequential digital electronic circuit having two stable states that can be used to store one bit of binary data. Flip-flops are the fundamental building blocks of all memory devices. Types of Flip-Flops S-R Flip-Flop J-K Flip-Flop D Flip-Flop T Flip-Flop Advertisement - 00:27 00:00 Ad will close in: 3 seconds or click to close S-R Flip-Flop This is the simplest flip-flop circuit. It has a set input (S) and a reset input (R). When in this circuit when S is set as active, the output Q would be high and the Q' will be low. If R is set to active then the output Q is low and the Q' is high. Once the outputs are established, the results of the circuit are maintained until S or R get changed, or the power is turned off. Truth Table of S-R Flip-Flop S R Q State 0 0 0 No Change 0 1 0 Reset 1 0 1 Set 1 1 X Characteristics Table of S-R Flip-Flop S R Q(t) Q(t+1) 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 0 X 1 1 1 X Characteristics Equation of S-R Flip-Flop Q ( t + 1 ) = S + R ′ Q ( t ) Q ( t + 1 ) = S + R ′ Q ( t ) J-K Flip-Flop Because of the invalid state corresponding to S=R=1 in the SR flip-flop, there is a need of another flip-flop. The JK flip-flop operates with only positive or negative clock transitions. The operation of the JK flip-flop is similar to the SR flip-flop. When the input J and K are different then the output Q takes the value of J at the next clock edge. When J and K both are low then NO change occurs at the output. If both J and K are high, then at the clock edge, the output will toggle from one state to the other. Truth Table of JK Flip-Flop J K Q State 0 0 0 No Change 0 1 0 Reset 1 0 1 Set 1 1 Toggles Toggle Characteristics Table of JK Flip-Flop J K Q(t) Q(t+1) 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 0 Characteristics Equation of JK Flip-Flop Q ( t + 1 ) = j k Q ( t ) ′ + K ′ Q ( t ) Q ( t + 1 ) = j k Q ( t ) ′ + K ′ Q ( t ) D Flip-Flop In a D flip-flop, the output can only be changed at positive or negative clock transitions, and when the inputs changed at other times, the output will remain unaffected. The D flip-flops are generally used for shift-registers and counters. The change in output state of D flip-flop depends upon the active transition of clock. The output (Q) is same as input and changes only at active transition of clock Truth Table of D Flip-Flop D Q 0 0 1 1 Characteristics Equation of D Flip-Flops Q ( t + 1 ) = D Q ( t + 1 ) = D T Flip-Flop A T flip-flop (Toggle Flip-flop) is a simplified version of JK flip-flop. The T flop is obtained by connecting the J and K inputs together. The flip-flop has one input terminal and clock input. These flip-flops are said to be T flip-flops because of their ability to toggle the input state. Toggle flip-flops are mostly used in counters. Truth Table of T Flip-Flop T Q(t) Q(t+1) 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 Characteristics Equation of T Flip-Flop Q ( t + 1 ) = T ′ Q ( t ) + T Q ( t ) ′ = T ⊕ Q ( t ) Q ( t + 1 ) = T ′ Q ( t ) + T Q ( t ) ′ = T ⊕ Q ( t ) Applications of Flip-Flops Counters Shift Registers Storage Registers, etc. Print Page Previous Next Advertisements TOP TUTORIALS Python Tutorial Java Tutorial C++ Tutorial C Programming Tutorial C# Tutorial PHP Tutorial R Tutorial HTML Tutorial CSS Tutorial JavaScript Tutorial SQL Tutorial TRENDING TECHNOLOGIES Cloud Computing Tutorial Amazon Web Services Tutorial Microsoft Azure Tutorial Git Tutorial Ethical Hacking Tutorial Docker Tutorial Kubernetes Tutorial DSA Tutorial Spring Boot Tutorial SDLC Tutorial Unix Tutorial CERTIFICATIONS Business Analytics Certification Java & Spring Boot Advanced Certification Data Science Advanced Certification Cloud Computing And DevOps Advanced Certification In Business Analytics Artificial Intelligence And Machine Learning DevOps Certification Game Development Certification Front-End Developer Certification AWS Certification Training Python Programming Certification COMPILERS & EDITORS Online Java Compiler Online Python Compiler Online Go Compiler Online C Compiler Online C++ Compiler Online C# Compiler Online PHP Compiler Online MATLAB Compiler Online Bash Terminal Online SQL Compiler Online Html Editor ABOUT US OUR TEAM CAREERS JOBS CONTACT US TERMS OF USE PRIVACY POLICY REFUND POLICY COOKIES POLICY FAQ'S Tutorials Point is a leading Ed Tech company striving to provide the best learning material on technical and non-technical subjects. © Copyright 2025. All Rights Reserved.