The MOSFET and Metal Oxide Semiconductor Tutorial X Register to download premium content! Tutorials AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input/Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies RC Networks Resistors Sequential Logic Systems Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators eBooks Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us English English Deutsch Polski Login Page Register Subscribe Register to download premium content! X Deutsch Polski Subscribe Register Login Page AC Circuits Amplifiers Attenuators Binary Numbers Boolean Algebra Capacitors Combinational Logic Connectivity Counters DC Circuits Diodes Electromagnetism Filters Inductors Input and Output Devices Logic Gates Miscellaneous Circuits Operational Amplifiers Oscillator Power Electronics Power Supplies Premium RC Networks Resistors Resources Sequential Logic Systems Tools Transformers Transistors Waveform Generators Premium Content Further Education Sitemap Page Contact Us Advertisement Home / Transistors / The MOSFET The MOSFET Metal Oxide FET’s operate the same as JFET’s but have a gate terminal that is electrically isolated from the conductive channel As well as the Junction Field Effect Transistor (JFET), there is another type of Field Effect Transistor available whose Gate input is electrically insulated from the main current carrying channel. The MOSFET is a type of semiconductor device called an Insulated Gate Field Effect Transistor . The most common type of insulated gate FET which is used in many different types of electronic circuits is called the Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor or MOSFET for short. The IGFET or MOSFET is a voltage controlled field effect transistor that differs from a JFET in that it has a “Metal Oxide” Gate electrode which is electrically insulated from the main semiconductor n-channel or p-channel by a very thin layer of insulating material usually silicon dioxide, commonly known as glass. This ultra thin insulated metal gate electrode can be thought of as one plate of a capacitor. The isolation of the controlling Gate makes the input resistance of the MOSFET extremely high way up in the Mega-ohms ( MΩ ) region thereby making it almost infinite. As the Gate terminal is electrically isolated from the main current carrying channel between the drain and source, “NO current flows into the gate” and just like the JFET, the MOSFET also acts like a voltage controlled resistor where the current flowing through the main channel between the Drain and Source is proportional to the input voltage. Also like the JFET, the MOSFETs very high input resistance can easily accumulate large amounts of static charge resulting in the MOSFET becoming easily damaged unless carefully handled or protected. Like the previous JFET tutorial, MOSFETs are three terminal devices with a Gate , Drain and Source and both P-channel (PMOS) and N-channel (NMOS) MOSFETs are available. The main difference this time is that MOSFETs are available in two basic forms: Depletion Type – the transistor requires the Gate-Source voltage, ( V GS ) to switch the device “OFF”. The depletion mode MOSFET is equivalent to a “Normally Closed” switch. Enhancement Type – the transistor requires a Gate-Source voltage, ( V GS ) to switch the device “ON”. The enhancement mode MOSFET is equivalent to a “Normally Open” switch. The symbols and basic construction for both configurations of MOSFETs are shown below. The four MOSFET symbols above show an additional terminal called the Substrate and is not normally used as either an input or an output connection but instead it is used for grounding the substrate. It connects to the main semiconductive channel through a diode junction to the body or metal tab of the MOSFET. Usually in discrete type MOSFETs, this substrate lead is connected internally to the source terminal. When this is the case, as in enhancement types it is omitted from the symbol for clarification. The line in the MOSFET symbol between the drain (D) and source (S) connections represents the transistors semiconductive channel. If this channel line is a solid unbroken line then it represents a “Depletion” (normally-ON) type MOSFET as drain current can flow with zero gate biasing potential. If the channel line is shown as a dotted or broken line, then it represents an “Enhancement” (normally-OFF) type MOSFET as zero drain current flows with zero gate potential. The direction of the arrow pointing to this channel line indicates whether the conductive channel is a P-type or an N-type semiconductor device. Basic MOSFET Structure and Symbol The construction of the Metal Oxide Semiconductor FET is very different to that of the Junction FET. Both the Depletion and Enhancement type MOSFETs use an electrical field produced by a gate voltage to alter the flow of charge carriers, electrons for n-channel or holes for P-channel, through the semiconductive drain-source channel. The gate electrode is placed on top of a very thin insulating layer and there are a pair of small n-type regions just under the drain and source electrodes. We saw in the previous tutorial, that the gate of a junction field effect transistor, JFET must be biased in such a way as to reverse-bias the pn-junction. With a insulated gate MOSFET device no such limitations apply so it is possible to bias the gate of a MOSFET in either polarity, positive ( +ve ) or negative ( -ve ). This makes the MOSFET device especially valuable as electronic switches or to make logic gates because with no bias they are normally non-conducting and this high gate input resistance means that very little or no control current is needed as MOSFETs are voltage controlled devices. Both the p-channel and the n-channel MOSFETs are available in two basic forms, the Enhancement type and the Depletion type. Depletion-mode MOSFET The Depletion-mode MOSFET , which is less common than the enhancement mode types is normally switched “ON” (conducting) without the application of a gate bias voltage. That is the channel conducts when V GS = 0 making it a “normally-closed” device. The circuit symbol shown above for a depletion MOS transistor uses a solid channel line to signify a normally closed conductive channel. For the n-channel depletion MOS transistor, a negative gate-source voltage, -V GS will deplete (hence its name) the conductive channel of its free electrons switching the transistor “OFF”. Likewise for a p-channel depletion MOS transistor a positive gate-source voltage, +V GS will deplete the channel of its free holes turning it “OFF”. In other words, for an n-channel depletion mode MOSFET: +V GS means more electrons and more current. While a -V GS means less electrons and less current. The opposite is also true for the p-channel types. Then the depletion mode MOSFET is equivalent to a “normally-closed” switch. Depletion-mode N-Channel Circuit Symbols The depletion-mode MOSFET is constructed in a similar way to their JFET transistor counterparts were the drain-source channel is inherently conductive with the electrons and holes already present within the n-type or p-type channel. This doping of the channel produces a conducting path of low resistance between the Drain and Source with zero Gate bias. Enhancement-mode MOSFET The more common Enhancement-mode MOSFET or eMOSFET, is the reverse of the depletion-mode type. Here the conducting channel is lightly doped or even undoped making it non-conductive. This results in the device being normally “OFF” (non-conducting) when the gate bias voltage, V GS is equal to zero. The circuit symbol shown above for an enhancement MOS transistor uses a broken channel line to signify a normally open non-conducting channel. For the n-channel enhancement MOS transistor a drain current will only flow when a gate voltage ( V GS ) is applied to the gate terminal greater than the threshold voltage ( V TH ) level in which conductance takes place making it a transconductance device. The application of a positive ( +ve ) gate voltage to a n-type eMOSFET attracts more electrons towards the oxide layer around the gate thereby increasing or enhancing (hence its name) the thickness of the channel allowing more current to flow. This is why this kind of transistor is called an enhancement mode device as the application of a gate voltage enhances the channel. Increasing this positive gate voltage will cause the channel resistance to decrease further causing an increase in the drain current, I D through the channel. In other words, for an n-channel enhancement mode MOSFET: +V GS turns the transistor “ON”, while a zero or -V GS turns the transistor “OFF”. Thus the enhancement-mode MOSFET is equivalent to a “normally-open” switch. The reverse is true for the p-channel enhancement MOS transistor. When V GS = 0 the device is “OFF” and the channel is open. The application of a negative ( -ve ) gate voltage to the p-type eMOSFET enhances the channels conductivity turning it “ON”. Then for an p-channel enhancement mode MOSFET: +V GS turns the transistor “OFF”, while -V GS turns the transistor “ON”. Enhancement-mode N-Channel Circuit Symbols Enhancement-mode MOSFETs make excellent electronics switches due to their low “ON” resistance and extremely high “OFF” resistance as well as their infinitely high input resistance due to their isolated gate. The enhancement-mode MOSFET is used in integrated circuits to produce CMOS type Logic Gates and power switching circuits in the form of as PMOS (P-channel) and NMOS (N-channel) gates. CMOS actually stands for Complementary MOS meaning that the logic device has both PMOS and NMOS within its design. The MOSFET Amplifier Just like the previous Junction Field Effect transistor, MOSFETs can be used to make single stage class “A” amplifier circuits with the enhancement mode n-channel MOSFET common source amplifier being the most popular circuit. Depletion mode MOSFET amplifiers are very similar to the JFET amplifiers, except that the MOSFET has a much higher input impedance. This high input impedance is controlled by the gate biasing resistive network formed by R1 and R2 . Also, the output signal for the enhancement mode common source MOSFET amplifier is inverted because when V G is low the transistor is switched “OFF” and V D (Vout) is high. When V G is high the transistor is switched “ON” and V D (Vout) is low as shown. Enhancement-mode N-Channel Amplifier The DC biasing of this common source (CS) MOSFET amplifier circuit is virtually identical to the JFET amplifier. The MOSFET circuit is biased in class A mode by the voltage divider network formed by resistors R1 and R2 . The AC input resistance is given as R IN = R G = 1MΩ . Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistors are three terminal active devices made from different semiconductor materials that can act as either an insulator or a conductor by the application of a small signal voltage. The MOSFETs ability to change between these two states enables it to have two basic functions: “switching” (digital electronics) or “amplification” (analogue electronics). Then MOSFETs have the ability to operate within three different regions: 1. Cut-off Region – with V GS < V threshold the gate-source voltage is much lower than the transistors threshold voltage so the MOSFET transistor is switched “fully-OFF” thus, I D = 0 , with the transistor acting like an open switch regardless of the value of V DS . 2. Linear (Ohmic) Region – with V GS > V threshold and V DS < V GS the transistor is in its constant resistance region behaving as a voltage-controlled resistance whose resistive value is determined by the gate voltage, V GS level. 3. Saturation Region – with V GS > V threshold and V DS > V GS the transistor is in its constant current region and is therefore “fully-ON”. The Drain current I D = Maximum with the transistor acting as a closed switch. MOSFET Tutorial Summary The Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor, or MOSFET for short, has an extremely high input gate resistance with the current flowing through the channel between the source and drain being controlled by the gate voltage. Because of this high input impedance and gain, MOSFETs can be easily damaged by static electricity if not carefully protected or handled. MOSFET’s are ideal for use as electronic switches or as common-source amplifiers as their power consumption is very small. Typical applications for metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors are in Microprocessors, Memories, Calculators and Logic CMOS Gates etc. Also, notice that a dotted or broken line within the symbol indicates a normally “OFF” enhancement type showing that “NO” current can flow through the channel when zero gate-source voltage V GS is applied. A continuous unbroken line within the symbol indicates a normally “ON” Depletion type showing that current “CAN” flow through the channel with zero gate voltage. For p-channel types the symbols are exactly the same for both types except that the arrow points outwards. This can be summarised in the following switching table. MOSFET type V GS = +ve V GS = 0 V GS = -ve N-Channel Depletion ON ON OFF N-Channel Enhancement ON OFF OFF P-Channel Depletion OFF ON ON P-Channel Enhancement OFF OFF ON So for n-type enhancement type MOSFETs, a positive gate voltage turns “ON” the transistor and with zero gate voltage, the transistor will be “OFF”. For a p-channel enhancement type MOSFET, a negative gate voltage will turn “ON” the transistor and with zero gate voltage, the transistor will be “OFF”. The voltage point at which the MOSFET starts to pass current through the channel is determined by the threshold voltage V TH of the device. Then we have seen here that the A MOSFET (Metal-Oxide-Semiconductor Field-Effect Transistor) is a type of transistor used to amplify or switch electronic signals in various devices. The key element in a MOSFET is the thin insulating layer of silicon dioxide (SiO₂) between the gate and the semiconductor body (typically silicon), which gives the MOSFET its high input impedance. When a voltage is applied to the gate, it creates an electric field that modifies the conductivity of the channel between the source and the drain. The two main types of MOSFETs are the n-channel MOSFET and the p-channel MOSFET. In the next tutorial about Field Effect Transistors instead of using the transistor as an amplifying device, we will look at the operation of the transistor in its saturation and cut-off regions when used as a solid-state switch. Field effect transistor switches are used in many applications to switch a DC current “ON” or “OFF” such as LED’s which require only a few milliamps at low DC voltages, or motors which require higher currents at higher voltages. Previous Junction Field Effect Transistor Next MOSFET as a Switch Read more Tutorials inTransistors 1. Bipolar Transistor 2. NPN Transistor 3. PNP Transistor 4. Transistor as a Switch 5. Junction Field Effect Transistor 6. The MOSFET 7. MOSFET as a Switch 8. Transistor Tutorial Summary 9. Darlington Transistors 10. FET Current Source 11. Open Collector Outputs 12. Phototransistor Basics 173 Comments Join the conversation Cancel reply Error! Please fill all fields. Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Δ umezuruike Brainy That’s nice explanation but the use of much abbreviations almost got me confuse Posted on August 20th 2024 | 3:41 pm Reply Rajan K Nice Posted on August 14th 2024 | 2:33 am Reply Anindya Khamaru I would love to know more about semiconductors Posted on July 12th 2024 | 6:21 am Reply Plastillinna Mosch hello, my name is Plastillinna Mosch Mylionaier Dayneger Poppe, Posted on May 06th 2024 | 7:10 pm Reply Tech At the top of the page the mosfet diagram is identical to the n channel “basic mosfet structure and symbol” shown lower on the page except Id is shown flowing in the wrong direction. Posted on February 14th 2024 | 8:42 pm Reply Jon This is a very nicely written and illustrated piece. However, why does the direction of current I_D reverse between the graphic at top of page and half way down (under Basic MOSFET structure)? Conventional current vs electron flow or just a slip of the graphics pen? Posted on January 18th 2024 | 3:25 pm Reply Omotayo Ojo Ezekiel I really enjoy this very educative writeup. Thanks for the efforts. Posted on December 28th 2023 | 10:39 pm Reply Johnny Outstsnding tutorial Posted on April 25th 2023 | 4:00 pm Reply Douglas Goldfarb, I went polytechnic tandon nyu in 1987 And studied design of mosfets and transistors and t models and h model And helped design different f series planes with team of 1987 Posted on January 25th 2023 | 3:35 pm Reply Sir Patrick Very Good Content Posted on December 08th 2022 | 10:44 am Reply Charles Very good information. Posted on November 13th 2022 | 6:36 pm Reply Muhammad siddique lamar Since MOSFET are used for switch purposes it also possible for operating heavy machinery such as a/c motors and compressors Posted on October 22nd 2022 | 12:29 pm Reply Manzoorul Haq Very helpful Posted on March 11th 2023 | 4:01 am Reply Wayne Storr Yes, MOSFET’s, IGFET’s and IGBT’s are used extensively in both AC and DC motor control drives and inverters. Posted on October 23rd 2022 | 7:04 am Reply Cliff chanaro difference between D MOSFET and E MOSFET Posted on October 11th 2022 | 12:07 pm Reply Tahir Khan A good article with limited and usefull unformation about MOSFETs specially that table Posted on September 11th 2022 | 2:48 am Reply Simon How about transistors as an amplifier Posted on June 17th 2022 | 9:14 am Reply Wayne Storr Then read the Amplifiers section Posted on June 17th 2022 | 9:41 am Reply Annu Sharma Good Posted on May 25th 2022 | 10:36 am Reply ibrahim good i liked it Posted on March 21st 2022 | 11:55 am Reply Steven Tseng Could you tell the specification of low side mosfet and high side mosfet, what is the difference of expectation , when you choose them? The Rds_on, the Qg, the capacitance, How to pick the best desired mosfet from their datasheet? Thank you Steven Posted on December 08th 2021 | 7:40 pm Reply Wayne Storr Low side switching indicates the MOSFET is connected between load and ground (0V). Thus the Source of the MOSFET is at ground potential and the Gate of the MOSFET is pulled HIGH to turn it ON. High side switching indicates the MOSFET is connected between load and power supply. Thus the Drain of the MOSFET is at VDD potential and the Gate is pulled to a HIGHER voltage than the Drain voltage to turn it ON. Rds(on) is affected by temperature, load current and inrush current. The choice of MOSFET will depend on voltage and current ratings of the application. Posted on December 09th 2021 | 8:08 am Reply More johnny you have the wrong person, my question that I asked, what is your opinion of spice simulators in particular multisim thank you Posted on November 03rd 2021 | 12:15 am Reply Sardar Muhammad khalid khan Most Respactable Sir very nice and full information Thanks a Lot,s Respectable Sir. Posted on November 02nd 2021 | 8:42 am Reply View More Read more Tutorials inTransistors 1. Bipolar Transistor 2. NPN Transistor 3. PNP Transistor 4. Transistor as a Switch 5. Junction Field Effect Transistor 6. The MOSFET 7. MOSFET as a Switch 8. Transistor Tutorial Summary 9. Darlington Transistors 10. FET Current Source 11. Open Collector Outputs 12. Phototransistor Basics Advertisement Advertisement Close The Basics Contact Us Privacy Policy Terms of Use For Advertisers Contact Sales Media Guide Request Aspencore Network EDN EE Times EEWeb Electronic Products Power Electronics News Embedded Planet Analog TechOnline Electronics Know How Global Network EE Times Asia EE Times China EE Times India EE Times Japan EE Times Taiwan EDN Asia EDN China EDN Taiwan EDN Japan ESM China Connect with Us Facebook All contents are Copyright © 2025 by AspenCore, Inc. All rights reserved. Subscribe Today! Get the latest tutorials delivered to your inbox. Sign up for our free eNewsletter. Close Page not found - ElProCus - Electronic Projects for Engineering Students Home Electrical What’s new in Electrical Molded Case Circuit Breaker (MCCB): Types, Working, and Applications Explained Magnetic Starter : Circuit, Working, Wiring, Vs Contactor, Advantages & Its Applications Preamplifier : Circuit, Working, Types, Differences, How to Choose, & Its Applications 2 Point Starter : Circuit, Working, Differences & Its Applications Plug Flow Reactor : Working, Derivation, Characteristics & Its Applications Electric Boiler : Working, Types, Differences, Maintenance & Its Applications Electronics What’s new in Electronics NVIDIA Tesla M40 : Specifications, Architecture, Working, Differences & Its Applications NVIDIA Titan Xp : Specifications, Architecture, Working, Differences & Its Applications NVIDIA Quadro P4000 : Specifications, Architecture, Working, Differences & Its Applications NVIDIA Tesla P100 : Specifications, Architecture, Working, Differences & Its Applications NVIDIA A30 : Specifications, Architecture, Working, Differences & Its Applications NVIDIA Tesla M60 : Specifications, Architecture, Working, Differences & Its Applications Communication What’s new in Communication Loop Antenna : Design, Working, Types, Radiation Pattern & Its Applications Corner Reflector : Working, Types, Calculation, radiation pattern & Its Applications Space Division Multiplexing : Diagram, Working, Advantages, Disadvantages & Its Applications Microstrip Antenna : Construction, Working, Types, Feeding Methods & Its Applications Alphanumeric Code : Types, Advantages & Its Applications Short Dipole Antenna : Design, Working, Radiation Pattern, Effectiveness & Its Applications Robotics Projects What’s new in Projects Arduino Uno Projects for Beginners and Engineering Students Image Processing Projects for Engineering Students Design and Implementation of GSM Based Industrial Automation How to Choose the Right Electrical DIY Project Kits How to Choose an Electrical and Electronics Projects Ideas For Final Year Engineering Students Why Should Engineering Students To Give More Importance To Mini Projects General Arduino Technology Free Circuits Interview Questions Projects ECE Projects EEE Projects Project Ideas IC Microcontrollers 8051 AVR PIC ARM Embedded Sensors Components Tools Resistor Color Code Calculator Ohms Law Calculator Circuit Design PCB Design Infographics News Oops! That page can’t be found. It looks like nothing was found at this location. Maybe try a search? Categories Communication Electrical Electronics Project Ideas Robotics Technology Recent Comments K BALAJI on Simple Electronic Circuits for Beginners Anny Arbert on Gyroscope Sensor Working and Its Applications Abhuday dangi on What is a UJT Relaxation Oscillator – Circuit Diagram and Applications Satyadeo Vyas on Construction and Working of a 4 Point Starter Follow On Facebook Advertise With Us Disclaimer Report Violation Image Usage Policy Privacy Policy Contact Us Copyright 2013 - 2025 © Elprocus